About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/collectionoftemn00schl

--------------------------------------

A Collection 
of 
Temne Traditions, 
Fables and Proverbs, 
with an English Translation; 
as also some 
Specimens of the Author's own Tenme Compositions 
and Translations; 
to which is appended 
A Temne-English Vocabulary. 

By 
The Rev. C. F Schlenker, 
Missionary of the Church Missionary Society. 

Printed for the Church Missionary Society, Salisbury Square. 
London. 1801. 



Printer: J. F. Steinkopf in Stuttgart. 









Preface. 



§ i. 

lhe Collection of Temne Traditions, Fables etc., as contained 
in the I. Part of the following pages, was received by the author 
from one of the oldest Temne men living at Port-Loko about 
twelve years ago, who has since died. These Traditions etc. 
were of course delivered orally not in writing. 

As regards the Traditions about the creation of the world, 
and about the first people; we may discover some traces of how 
sin and death came into this world; though of course much de- 
viating from the truth, as represented to us by the Mosaic 
accounts. 

It seems, however, that some Mohammedan traditions have 
been mixed up with the original Temne ones. 

The translation of these Traditions, etc. in Part I. was made 
somewhat free; which the author thought himself justified to do; 
as there is a full Vocabulary appended for this Collection of 
Temne literature, by which the literal translation may lit' made 
out by the reader himself, if required. 

§ 2. 

The signification of the term: Temne seems to lie „an old 
man himself." They derive it, as the author was told, from: 
o-tem, „an old man, an old gentleman," to which is affixed the 
reflexive suffix -ne, „self"; because they believe that the Temne 
nation will ever exist. 

The word ought, therefore, to he written , , Temne", and not 
„Timne", as is often done, or even „Timmanee". 

a* 



IV Preface. 

§ 3. 

The Temne country, as to its extension, reaches about from 
11° 15' to 13° 10' of western longitude, and from 8° 15' to 
9" 6' northern latitude. 

As regards the number of its inhabitants, it is difficult to 
state a sum which comes near the truth. The author is, how- 
ever, of opinion that they will amount to from 90,000 — 100,000. 
But the Temne is understood in the Bolom country, and in those 
districts, which border immediately on the Temne country. 

The Temnes have by no means those strong characteristic 
negro features, which the tribes farther down to the south have. 
Their features come nearer to those of the Susus and Mandingoes, 
who live to the north of the Temue country. 

§ 4. 

a) The principal Temne tribes are the following: 

1. An-Temne a-tdron, „the eastern Temnes." 

2. An-Temne a-pil, „the western Temnes." 

3. Am-Mabanta, „the Mabanta Temnes." 

4. Ait-Kwea, „the Quea Temnes." 

The two latter tribes are on the right bank of the Rokel 
river; the Mabantas are higher up the river, and the Queas lower 
down close to the Colony of Sierra-Leone.*) 

b) The Port-Loko territory belongs to the western part of 
the Temne country, bordering on the Bolom country on the west. 

c) The town Port-Loko is in Temne called Bake Ldko, 
which signifies literally „ Wharf of the Lokos." This town is 
situated at the top, or end of the Port-Loko creek, about 60 
miles north-east from Freetown. The Lokos are a people of 
their own, having their own language or dialect. They were 
formerly inhabiting Port-Loko, from whence they were driven 
by the Temnes more to the interior north-east, where they are 



*) A tract of the Quea-Country lias been lately ceded to the English 
(iovcrument at Sierra Leone. 



Preface. V 

now living, between the Temne and the Limb'a country. From 
this nation the town Port-Loko derives its name. 

d) Also the Baka people were living at Port-Loko in former 
times; from whence they were driven by Bey Farma the Con- 
queror. They then went down to Sierra Leone, and from thence 
up to the Isles de Loss, where they settled again, and where 
their descendants are still living. (Cf. Traditions pag. 3.) 

§ 5. 

Bey Foki, they say, preceded the first Alikali Kindo, also 
called Alikali Morba. The Gbara family gave the country into 
the hands of Morba, and named him Alikali; because they had 
the government of the Port-Loko territory. They did so, be- 
cause the country was in a bad state that time. Kindo, or 
Morba lived before Alikali Fatima's time. Fatima Brema was 
the predecessor of Xamina Modu, who was Alikali of the Port- 
Loko territory at the time, when the author was residing at 
Port-Loko. 

As to the derivation and signification of the term „Alikali" 
see the word in the Vocabulary. — It ought properly to be 
written Alikali, not Ali Kali. 

§ 6. 

The Temnes affirm that this present world is the second 
which God made, and the people inhabiting it the second race 
of men, and that when the present world conies to an end, and 
all its inhabitants are in Hades; God will make another world, 
and other people in the same way as he had done for the first 
and second world. (Cf. Traditions pag. 15.) 

As they affirm that the present world is the second, which 
God made; may we not here have a trace of the flood in Noah's 
time, by which the first world was destroyed? 

They also affirm that the first people, which God made, 
were neither white nor black; but of a Mulatto complexion, or 
of a brown or tawny colour. 



VI Preface. 

§ 7. 

The traditions about the conduct of the first people, whom 
God made, are very descriptive of the character of the Temnes; 
thus they are at this day. Eating and drinking, and the lusts 
of the flesh, arc still the objects for which they care most. 
Their God is their belly. These Traditions also serve to show 
what notions they have of God, or of the Supreme Being, and 
how contrary these notions are to the attributes of God, as re- 
vealed to us in the Bible. 

While the author resided at Port-Loko, he was frequently 
asked by the natives for what they called „child medicine," i. e. 
a medicine to procure children with for persons who were barren. 
They would have given any thing for it , if he could have pro- 
cured it for them. Of course he told them that he was not in 
the possession of such a medicine, and that it was God alone 
who could give us children, as they where his gift. (Cf. Tra- 
ditions pag. 17. 19.) 

§ 8. 
If one commits adultery with the woman of another man, 
they consider it a very serious offence, and the offender is se- 
verely punished for it. If a man marries a woman, and finds 
her defloured, or not a virgin, he may send her back to her 
family; but if he finds her a virgin, he will, a few days after 
the marriage, send a present to her parents in token of her vir- 
ginity, which present is called : a-bola, and generally consists of 
a gun, or of an iron pot, or of tobacco, which is sent along 
with a white cloth, which latter article is always necessary for 
this purpose. (Cf. Deut. 22, 13. etc.) 

§ 9. 
The Temnes use to kill deformed children after their birth. 
The persons, who perform this cruel act, are not the parents 
themselves; but particular persons called r'a ra-sam, pi. y'etr 
p-sam, lit. „a holy" or „sacred thing," or „a thing set apart 
from common use for some particular object;" and then as ap- 



Preface. VII 

plied to persons: „people set apart from common use for a par- 
ticular object." Thus the name of the work, which these people 
do, is applied also to the persons who do it, and we have here 
an Ahstractum pro Conereto, as is sometimes the case in Temne. 
(For r'a ra-sam is generally not used of animate ohjects; though 
they may say r'a ra-nesam, „a living creature;" hut here it is 
the adjective, which makes the word to signify an animate being.) 
These persons are said to perform this cruel act at night, when 
no other person is allowed to be present, while engaged in it. 
They either burn these unhappy creatures, or strangle them by 
stopping their breatb. 

This accounts for the circumstance, that we see no deformed, 
or crippled children or persons among the Temnes, or but very 
very seldom. 

The reason why they act in this manner is no doubt because 
they attach some superstitious fear to such a deformed offspring, 
thinking that such a child would not only become an unlucky 
being itself; but also bring evil or misfortune upon the family. 

§ 10. 

a) Of a proper resurrection of the dead on the last day, 
the Temnes have no idea; though they believe in some kind of 
judgment or retribution after death, or that their state after 
death will depend on their conduct here in this world. They 
believe that all men. who live in this world will go to the Hades 
(i.e. ro-krifi,*) ,, place' - or „abode of departed spirits"), when 
they die, and will remain there for ever without a body; some 
in a happy, some in an unhappy state, according to their be- 
haviour here. They also believe, that they will get their slaves 
again in Hades; provided they tie a rope round their neck when 
they die, and let the rope reach out of the grave, fastening it 
to a stick pinned on the grave for this purpose. (Cf. Traditions 
pag. 39J 

b) But the Temnes believe that a person may by a sort of 



*) See the term: krifi, ro-, in the Vocab. behind. 



VIII Preface. 

transmigration escape from the grave, which they express by the 
word „falan". They affirm that some persons having been put 
to death innocently, have come to life again, and that they were 
then living in a far country in great wealth. E. g. Alikali o dif 
n-wontr ka Dalu Modu; here talari, o yi ri ro ka an-tof ria 
ari-Sulima; o ba a-trar a-lai, de a-kala a-gbati, o yi o-y6la o- 
bana. „ Alikali put to death a brother of Dalu Modu; but he 
transmigrated, he is there in the country of the Sulimas; he has 
many slaves, and much property, and is a great gentleman." 

It deserves to be remarked, that the country, in which these 
persons are said to live again, is always a very distant one. 

c) They also assert that a child, which has died and been 
buried, may be born again in a natural way, which they express 
by the verb kal kom, „bring forth again, bear again." They 
prove this assertion from certain marks on the body of the new- 
born child agreeing exactly with those which the child had that 
died. 

d) The place of torment or hell is in Temne called: an'antr, 
„the fire," or also: an'antr na-tabana, „the everlasting tire." 
They also call it: Yahannama; but this is of Arabic origin, and 
introduced by the Mohammedans. 

e) The place of happiness they call: od'er o-ma-bone, „the 
place of joy," in opposition to which they call the place of tor- 
ment also : od'er o-las, „the bad place." Otherwise they call the 
place of happiness also: rianna, ..heaven", and: firdans, para- 
dise", which two terms are, however, also of foreign origin, and 
derived from the Arabic, and have also been introduced by the 
Mohammedans. (Cf. Temne Gramm. § 6.) 

f) The state or condition of the happy they express by: 
ma-trama ma-fino, „a prosperous" or „happy condition," and that 
of the unhappy by: ma-trama ma-las, „a bad" or ., unhappy con- 
dition," or also by: m'one ma-bana, „great misery." (Cf. Tra- 
ditions pag. 37. 39.) 

g) But the Temnes seem to believe that both places, i. e. 
the place of happiness and the place of torment, are contained 



Preface. IX 

in the Hades itself, and not existing somewhere else, or sepa- 
rately. (Cf. the word krifi, ro-, in the Vocabulary behind.) 

§ 11. 

a) As regards the object of their worship, it may be said 
that they believe in the existence of a Supreme Being, which 
they call: K'Grumasaba, which is the most solemn name of the 
Deity; otherwise they call this Being also: K'uru,*) which, how- 
ever, signifies also „sky, heaven; deity." What the sense of the 
„masaba" is, which is joined to K'uru, we have not been able 
to find out. Perhaps it is for: ma sa ba, = sa ina ba, which 
signifies „we have," when the full sense of the word would be 
„the God we have;" but this is only a conjecture. 

They do, however, not believe that this Being exercises any 
providence over men. They think that, after having created the 
world, he does not farther care about it, nor about the concerns 
of men; and, therefore, they also do not worship him. 

b) The objects of their worship are rather what they call : 
a-krifi,**) „krifis, tutelary spirits." For these they care much 
more than for the Supreme Being, and pay them much greater 
attention; because they believe that these Krifis exercise a much 
greater influence upon their condition than God, and that their 
happy or unhappy condition in this world depends on the good- 
will, or upon the ill-will of these Krifis. Hence the many sacri- 
fices which they make to them, by which they endeavour to keep 
them well disposed towards them, in order that they might do 
them no harm. For any evil, which befalls a person, is attri- 
buted to the ill-will of the Kriti, who, as they say, has been 
offended by the person, on whom he sent the evil, either by not 
having made sacrifices to him, or by not having cared for him 
properly, and the Krifi must then be reconciled by sacrifices; 
while on the other hand every good, with which one may meet, 



*) Cf. the word k'uru in the Vocabulary. 
**) See the word: krifi, both the noun and the adjective in the Voca- 
bulary behind. 



X Preface. 

is attributed to the good-will of the Krifi, for which they then 
bring him a sacrifice of thanksgiving. 

c) There are good and evil Krifis, as also male and female 
ones. They believe that they not only take care of men, but 
also of towns, houses, and farms etc., as long as they are well 
disposed. Hence we frequently meet with a small hut before a 
town, or at its entrance, which is dedicated to the Krifi, or tute- 
lary spirit of the town; before whom they set food from time 
to time, or at certain periods. 

But the concrete noun o-kriti is also used for the abstract, 
and they use o-kriti for „luck", as: o ba o-kriti o-ffno, „he has 
good luck," lit. „he lias a good krifi;" — o ba o-krin* o-las, 
„he has bad luck," lit. „he has a bad krifi." 

A male Krifi they call: Q-krifi o-runi, and a female one: 
0-krifi o-bera. 

The sacrifices which they bring to these Krifis, and which 
are called: s'adka*) (which is a word of Arabic origin, and in- 
troduced by the Mohammedans; cf. Teinne Grain. § 6), generally 
consist of food, as of cooked rice, or of cakes, etc. 

§ 12- . 

a) The Krifis themselves, they say, cannot be seen by any 
body, except by those who have four eyes, as they call it, that 
is by the: an-soki, „the wizards, the augurers," or by „those 
possessed of second sight." But they have representatives of 
these Krifis in their houses, which consist of stones taken from 
the graves of relatives, never from those of strangers. These 
stones they call: am-baki, lit. ,.the dead ones, the manes," or 
„thc shades of the departed." To these stones they bring then- 
sacrifices; and we may often hear them saying: 'a ko trond am- 
baki, „they go to cook for the dead," or „for the manes;" or: 
trond o-kriti, „he cooks for the Krifi." 

b) The immortal part of man they call: an'umpal, pi. ain'uin- 
pal, sometimes also: ey'umpal. It properly signifies „the shadow 



*) See this word in the Vocah. behind. 



Preface. XI 

of a person," or „of a tree, as caused by standing in the sun." 
As applied to a person it is said to walk sometimes, hence 
„ departed spirit, soul," = the Gr. to rm-viia. It is also used 
of the shade of an animal slaughtered for sacrifice, -which is said 
to appear in the Hades in behalf of him, for whom the sacrifice 
was made. They even apply it to the Deity. 

In the whole they rather dread than revere these Krifis, and 
try by sacrifices to keep them favourably disposed towards them, 
so as not to be harmed by them. 

Note. They do not apply the term Krifi to the spirit of man. 
But from the circumstance that the stones taken from the 
graves of relatives are the representative- of the Krifis; one 
might be induced to believe that these Krifis are their de- 
ceased ancestors, deified, as it were, after their death, as 
is the case with the Bassutos in South-Africa. 

§ 13. 

a) The Krifis are said to reside in the wood or bush, and 
sometimes to make a noise before sun-rise, as if one were striking 
a tin-pan. Some, they say, look like White men, some like the 
Mori-men (Mohammedans), i. e. of a Mulatto complexion. They 
assert that God made the Krifis, and that they are invisible; only 
certain persons (as stated in the preceding section) can see them. 

Sometimes, they say, a shine may be seen like the glimmer 
of a lamp early in the morning, which, they say, is the Krifi 
when passing round the town. 

b „The diamond snake," or ..the devil snake," or „the 
magic snake" called: an-yaro in Temue, they believe to be a 
Krifi. They affirm that it is able to part the water in two, so 
that a canoe cannot pass on. If a black man sees it, and is 
able to give something to the snake, the man can get rich, for 
this Krifi will give him plenty of rice, etc. This yaro is said to 
come to people in the form of another person, to talk to them, 
and to tell them: „How do you do?" If he comes to a house 
at night to sleep with a person, no other person can come to 
that house; the house, they say, is then very hot. There is a 



XII Preface. 

little island on the other side of Port Loko, close to that part 
of the town Port-Loko, which they call: Old Port Loko, where 
the Krifis are said to beat drums, and to dance in the day-time ; 
but no man can see them. 

Many more such superstitious things might be stated of these 
Krifis by the author; but those given above will suffice. 

Note. As regards the sacrifices of those Temnes, who have 
become Mori-men, or Mohammedans, and their belief that 
the shadows of the victims go to the Hades, see „ Church 
Missionary Record for June 1851, pag. 129." 

§ 14. 

The Temnes firmly believe that by witchcraft a person may 
turn himself into a leopard, or into an alligator in order to hurt 
others in a secret manner. Yea, they affirm that such persons 
may come at night to the house of another, rub against the door, 
and imitate the voice of some person, and pretend to have some- 
thing to say to the person in the house. But when the person 
opens, it is a leopard, who then kills him. In the year 1854 
they burned a man at Port-Loko, because he was charged with 
having done such a thing. They tied his hands and feet together, 
thrust a stick through them, and then suspended him over a fire, 
and burned him to death. 

in April 1850 one was burned at night quite secretly, about 
which see „ Church Miss. Record tor June 1851, pag. 131." 

§ 15. 
Charms or Amulets are also extensively used among the 
Temnes, which, they say, are to protect them from evil. Some 
are to protect the owner against rain; others against the ball of 
a gun; again others against the stroke of a cutlass, etc. The 
wearing of such charms seems to prevail much among the African 
tribes. 

§ 16. 

As the Temnes ascribe events, as they happen, generally 
to chance or fortune; we cannot be surprised at meeting with 



Preface. XIII 

many words in their language referring to this , such words as 
convey the sense of „luck, fortune; good luck, bad luck; a good 
krifi, or a bad krifi." Still we may now and then hear one say 
at the death of a person: „God has called him away.-' 

Another thing in the Temne language worthy of remark is 
that many words occur referring to the cultivation of rice, which 
shows that this is one of their principal articles of food among 
them, and so it is. 

§ 17.- 
The Bondo-Institution among the Temnes called: am-bondo, 
is a secret institution, where they practise female circumcision; 
the oldest woman of the king is generally the headwoman of it, 
whom they call „bom rigba." Every female before getting mar- 
ried is to be initiated into it, The Temnes have received this 
custom from the Kossos. A member of this institution is called 
Q-ko-bondo, pi. a-ko-bondo. *) 

§ 18. 

a) The Porro Association is a secret society called: am- 
pdro, and a member of it is called: o-ko-poro, pi. a-kc-poro.*) 
It is for men only, and exists chiefly on the Rokel. All the 
members of it are tattooed on their nape. If is chiefly of a 
political nature, and they assume a great deal of power, and 
are very violent, especially when offended by one not initiated 
into their society, upon whom they look as unclean, calling him : 
o-gborka, which signifies „any one not initiated into the great 
institutions of the country," or „one ceremoniously unclean." 
Thus a woman not initiated into the Bondo institution is called 
by that name. The Porros will demand satisfaction for all what 
they may call an offence done to them. 

b) They frequently excommunicate persons by fixing a Gree- 
gree called: a-poro at their yard, or at their farms, consisting 
of a stick, at the top of which they tie some leaves or grass, 



*) For an analysis of these forms sec the Temne Crammar § 23. 



XIV Preface. 

and by which they prevent the respective person from leaving 
his yard, or from touching any thing in his farm, and thus cut 
him off from all communication with others. Thus they may say: 
1 a raf ri a-poro, „they fixed there a porro," or „they fixed a 
porro greegree," or „the sign of excommunication there;" — 'a 
rafar-ko am-poro, „they excommunicated him," lit. ,.they fixed 
the porro greegree for him." 

Note. The author was once an eyewitness of the violent cha- 
racter of these people. Already their look indicates their 
character. When the author went once down the Rokel to 
Sierra Leone, he was obliged to stay at some little town 
on shore to wait for the tide. One of his boat-crew hap- 
pened to spit on the foot of such a porro man, not inten- 
tionally but accidentally. Tlie porro man immediately asked 
for a satisfaction on account of this offence; and as the 
Liberated African had nothing to give him, he took away 
the iron pot in which they cooked their food on shore. 
To regain the pot the author gave his man some heads of 
tobacco to redeem the pot with it. It would have been of 
no use for the author to speak to this saucy person, and 
the simplest way of settling the matter was to give the 
desired satisfaction; especially under the circumstances in 
which he and his crew were then placed. 

§ 19. 

a) With regard to the Traditions there are sometimes various 
readings, which have been given at the bottom of the page. This 
is also the case with some of the Fables. 

b) As regards the Fables some of them seem to be intended 
to convey a moral precept; others to state the occasion, on which 
an animal assumed its present form, and again others the reason 
why some animal lives at such and such a place. iCf. also what 
has been stated under a, with regard to various readings.) 

§ 20. 

Though Proverbs collected from the Natives are in some 
respects of great use for the acquisition of the language; yet 



Preface. XV 

they will not always enable the student to form general rules for 
the construction of the language; because with Proverbs the con- 
struction is often very peculiar, and the expressions so concise; 
as would not be tolerated in common language or conversation; 
and as regards the collection of materials for a Grammar, Fables 
and Stories are far more preferable for this purpose. 

This observation applies at least to most of the Temne 
Proverbs, and may probably apply also to those of other African 
languages. 

§ 21. 
With regard to the Temne Addresses in P. II. Chapt. II. 
they are expressed in plain Temne, the same truth being some- 
times imparted in different ways; as ma) be expected, and as 
was necessary with such an audience as that one was to which 
they were delivered. 

§ 22. 

a) The Vocabulary has been adapted to the Contents of this 
book only, and those words only (with a few exceptions) have 
been inserted, which occur in this publication. The original sense 
of each word has been given; but not all the other senses de- 
rived from it. It may be observed here, that what we have 
called relative verbs, whose suffix is -na, or -a, generally govern 
two, and sometimes even three Accusatives; one of which some- 
times expresses the object in whose behalf, or in whose favour 
or disfavour the energy of the verb is exercised; and sometimes 
the instrument by which the action, indicated by the verb, is 
performed; and sometimes the material of which a thing is made. 
Another class of rel. verbs have the suff. -ar, or -r, which ex- 
presses various prepositions. As regards verbal nouns with the 
prefix ka-, see the observation under this prefix in the Voca- 
bulary. 

b) In order to make the Vocabulary more intelligible to the 
reader, it may be well to notice here in short, what has been 
stated in the Grammar more fully, that the Prefix, which is 



XVI Preface. 

prefixed to nouns, might also be called the Article; that it as- 
sumes various forms, and that it has an indef. as well as a def. 
form in both numbers. Most of them are made def. by the vowel 
prefix a-, and a few by e-, and some by o-, which vowels see in 
the Vocab in their respective places. But the emph. vowel prefix 
is sometimes dropped, especially at the beginning of a proposi- 
tion, or when the connection sufficiently shows that the def. state 
is intended. It must also be borne in mind, that the prefix, at 
least as regards the one used with inanimate or neuter nouns, 
always influences the form of the poss. preposition, and that of 
all the various pronouns, as of the rel., — dem., — poss., — etc. 
With animate nouns this is less the case. 

Note 1. The various Forms or Conjugations of the Temne 
verb are but sparingly represented in the Traditions, Fables 
and Proverbs; though there is a great variety of them. 
Note 2. As the Author's Temne Grammar has not yet been 
published, he has thought himself justified in giving a more 
copious explanation of certain words in the Vocabulary than 
he would have done otherwise, in order to make it more 
useful and intelligible to the reader. 
Note 3. The author does not think that any word, occurring 
in the Traditions, Fables etc., has been omitted in the Vo- 
cabulary; nor is he aware that any word, occurring in the 
examples of the Vocabulary itself has been left out; though 
it is possible that a few may have escaped his notice.*) 

May the following pages serve, in some measure at least, 
to promote the spread of Christ's Kingdom in benighted Africa; 
so that the dark places of this great Continent also may soon 
become enlightened with the glorious Gospel of Truth! 

C. F. Schlenker. 

Kirohheim u. Teck, Wiirttemberg , October 15. 18G1. 



*) A few words omitted in the Vocabulary will be found under the 
?Addenda* behind. 



XVII 



Pronounciation of Letters. 



As not every reader of the following pages may have at 
hand the Standard Alphabet of Professor Lepsius of Berlin, ac- 
cording to which the Traditions, etc., contained in the following 
pages, as also the Grammar, are written; we subjoin here, for 
the convenience of the reader, a table representing the sounds 
used in the Temnc language — 



1. Vowels. 

a) Primary and intermediate vowels. 

a sounds like a in — father. 

a „ „ the ger. a in — Mann. 

e „ „ the ger. e in — legem 

e „ „ the ger. e in — wenn. 

£ „ „ the ger. a in — Bar. 

e „ „ a in — happy, fat. 

I „ „ ee in — see. 

T „ „ i in — sin. 

o „ „ o in — no, home. 

6 „ „ the ger. o in — von, wollen. 

o „ „ a in — all, water. 

o „ „ o in — hot, not. 

u „ ,, u in — rule. 

u „ ,, oo iu — ' foot. 

b) Imperfect vowel sounds, 
a This is the only one used in Temne, and is a short deep 
pectoral sound. As to its power it comes nearest to the 
u in — but, or in — tub. See Tem. Gram. § 1G, l.b. 



XVIII Pronounciation of Letters. 

c) Diphthongs. 

ai sounds like the ger. ai in — Kaiser, or like the engl. i in — 

mine. 
au „ „ ou in — house, or like the ger. au in — Haus. 
ei „ „ the ger. ei in — leiden, or like the engl. ey in — 

eye. 
oi „ „ the gr. 01 in — xoivog, as pronounced on the Con- 
tinent, 
oi „ „ oi in — oil, join. 

ui „ „ the lat. ui in — fui, as pronounced on the Conti- 
nent; or somewhat like the engl. ui in congruity, if it 
would he pronounced like a diphthong, 
ai Both vowels have their proper sound; but are so contracted 
in pronouncing them as to form a short diphthong. 



2. 


Consonants. 




a) Simple. 


The letters b, d, f, k, 1, 


m, d, p, r, s, t, have the usual english 


sounds. 




g like g in — gold. 




h „ h in — horse. 




n „ ng in — king, or 


like the ger. ng in — Gesang. 


s „ sh in — sh<5w, 




w „ w in — we, waft. 




v „ y in — year. 





b) Compound. 

Of these there are only two, viz — 
gb and ts. The latter sounds like ch in — church. 

Note 1. Whenever the forms mm, nil, and rr are met with 
at the end of a word, which is the case with some adverbs, 
the voice dwells upon them , not on the vowel preceding 
them, on which account these consonants have been doubled. 
E. g. tamm, „very". 
Note 2. Long vowels are marked as usually by ("), as: a, 
e, etc. Though the short vowels have been marked in the 



Pronounciation of Letters. XIX 

preceding table by the usual sign f) to show their cor- 
responding sound in other languages; yet for brevity's sake 
this mark will be left away in the following pages. It is, 
therefore, to be borne in mind, that every vowel not having 
the mark of a long one, is short. 

Note 3. Long diphthongs have the usual sign of length placed 
on the second vowel, thus : ai. When they receive the accent, 
it is always placed on the last of the two vowels, e. g. atrei. 

Note 4. Extreme length of vowels bos been marked by doub- 
ling them with the usual mark of length, and when receiving 
an accent, it is placed on the first of them; e. g. train. 
Diphthongs pronounced very long have been marked in the 
same w r ay, that is by doubling them, as: lauau. 

Note 5. If two vowels standing together are to be sounded 
distinctly or separately, the usual mark of diaeresis has been 
employed, as: a-rei, „a day." * 

Note 6. If r follows t, and is to be pronounced together 
with t, as is often the case both at the beginning and at 
the end of a word; the r is pronounced rather faint, much 
like tr in „true" or in „truth'\ 

Note 7. The accented syllable is indicated by the accute 
accent; e. g. falir. If a word has two accents the stronger 
one is marked by a double accent; e g. K'urumasaba. 



b* 



XX 



Contents. 



Page. 



Part I. 

Collection of Tenme Traditions, Fables and 
Proverbs. 

Chapter I. Traditions about the ancient Heroes of the 

Temnes 1 — 13 

Chapter II. Traditions respecting the Creation of the 

World and of the first Men . . . 13—35 
Chapter III. Traditions concerning the State of Man 

after Death 1. and 2 35—41 
Chapter IV. Fables. 

Fable I. The Iguana and the Dog . . . 41 — 45 
» II. The Spider, and the Ant- Eater and Mr. 

Tamba 45—57 

» III The Child and the Bird .... 57—61 
» IV. The Elephant and the Goat . . . 61—67 
» V. The Spider, and the Bushgoat, and the 
Deer, and the Antelope, and the Bush- 
cow, and the Fillentamba . . . 67 — 73 
» VI. The Spiflpr, and the Bushgoat, and the 

Ant-Eater, and the Leopard . . 73 — 87 

» VII. The King, and his Daughter, and Mr. Tamba 87— 97 

Chapter V. Proverbs 98—101 

Part II. 

Specimens of the Authors own Temne 
Compositions and Translations. 

Chapter I. Colloquial Phrases. 

1. Salutations 105—110 

2. Of Worship 110-112 



Contents. 



XXI 



Pennies. 



3. Of the School 

4. Of the House 

5. Of Eating snd Drinking 
Chapter II. Addresses delivered to the 

1. On John 14, 6. 

2- On 2 Cor. 5, 19. 20. . 

3. Ou Jude v. 14. 15. 

4. On Luke 10. 10—16. . 

Chapter III. The ten Commandments 

Chapter IV. Translation of some Psalms 

Psalm 1 

» XXIII 

> CXXVT. . 

Chapter V. Hymns , 

Chapter YI. The Lord's Prayer 



Part III. 

Temne English Vocabulary 



Page. 
112-113 

113—114 
114—115 

115—119 
119-123 
123—127 
127—131 

132—133 

133 

134 

134-135 

136-138 

138 



139—298 



XXII 



Corrigenda et Addenda. 

1. Corrigenda. 



Page. 


Line 








For 


Read 


15, 


9 




from 


top, 


ake 


take. 


24, 


11 




55 


'5 


me e-sflma 


mo e-suma 


37, 


4 




from 


bottom, 


returnes 


returns. 


105, 


10 




55 


„ Nothing but trouble! 


Nothing at all 


107, 


1 




5) 


55 


yefa-i? 


yefa-e ? 


107, 


5 and 


8 


55 


55 


sen 


sen 1 . 


108, 


5 




from 


top, 


sen-e 


sene. 


110, 


4. 5 and 8 


from 


bottom, 


sen nan 


sen 1 nan. 


146, 


11 




55 


55 ^ 


rope and rope 


a rope. 


247, 


13 




55 


55 

2. Adde 


so, v. n. 

n (1 a 


so, v. a. 


Page. 














105. 


Line 2 


from 1)0 


ttom , after : 


„Thou, how a i 


t thou?" add 



or ,,Thou, what news?" 
107. Line 1 from bottom read: 

re ma yefa-e? or ) 

ro ma yefa-e? ' 
168. Fil, v. a. „turn round" ias a sling ; „move" or „turn to 

and fro; swing to and fro" (as a hammock); e. g. tie 

fil Qw'ahet, „do not turn the child to and fro." 
179. I, pr. subj. „I"; e. g. I pori ama-pant, „I have done with 

the work." 
„ I-, pref. indef. „a, an ;" its pi. form is always ma-, never e-. 

E. g. i-yari, „a cat." 
228. P'in, adj. num. „one kind, one sort;" e.g. pa-la p'in, „one 

sort of rice." 



Part I. 



A Collection 



of 



Tern ne Traditions Fables and Proverbs. 



Temne -Sagen. 



— 2 



Ara-l)omp I. 

Ma-Kane ma-kur traka ah-Kelfa a-baki na an-Temne. 

Be Farma o yefa ro-toron, o won ri, g yi o-kelfa o-bana. 
Pa t£si tra-komra tr'eme tra-sas mo o yi tapan. 

Ari-lo ha-tsi an-Temne') na ba he a-pihkar, na ba he a-gbato; 
ha ba gbo tr'antr, de e-sor, de e-bantra, de ma-seno, de e-boka, 
de e-lis traka tsim. dim an-tof be. yoka ra-kelfa ro- 
tdroh, o tsim an-tof a-torgh, g poh-hi. Kono mot solo a-kala, 
de e-pihkar, de p'olpala, de e-gbato, de >'etr e-tsima be. 
won ro-toroh, o tor he lemp ro-Bake Loko. 2 ) dif a-Limba, 
de tila-ha; o won ri; o dif a-Lokg, ko dim ri tamm. 3 ) 
O der ka an-tgf ha an-Temne, g yira ro-Belia. 4 ) 



Kg g tsim Be Yare, gwg gbiike, kg g wgh ro-m'antr de 
ah-wut-h'gh be, de ah-kala-h'gh be, de apa-la-p'gh be, de e-sem- 
y'gh e-trgl be; kg Be Farma g tsia g yira ri; kg g wur, g tsim 
an-tgf ha an-Temne be, g poh-hi. Kg g bal am-Baka, aha yi 
ro-Bake Lgkg tapah, ha tor ro-bil, ha kgne ro-pil; de am-JVIarun, 
de ah-fam be ha gbuke; kg g bal am-B61am de ah-Kwea, ha 
yefa ro-Bake Lgkg; g poh bal ro-Kel be, ka ha be ha gbuke. 



1) See the Preface § 2. 

2) See about the name of this town Preface § 4. c. 

3) Lit. „he destroyed there entirely", i. e. he dispeopled 
the country so much that it became almost a desert. 

4) A river in the Loko country. A town lying near it was 
called „Yare". 



— 3 



Chapter I. 

Traditions about the ancient Heroes of the Te nines. 

Bey Farma came from the East, where he was for a long 
time; he was a great warrior. More than three hundred genera- 
tions have passed away since he lived. 

At that time the Temnes had no gun, and no cutlass; they 
had only sticks, and spears, and bows, and arrows, and bill- 
hooks, and knives to fight with. He destroyed the whole country. 
He took upon him the office of a captain of the army in the 
East, and waged war against the East-country, and went all over 
it. He was the first who got money, and guns, and gunpowder, 
and cutlasses, and all sorts of arms. He stayed a long time in 
the East, and did not straight ways come down to Port-Loko. 
He killed Limbas, and sold (some of) them; he was long there; 1 ) 
he killed Lokos, and he destroyed it (country) entirely. He 
came into the Temne country, and lived at Belia. 

Then he fought against Bey Tare, who ran, 2 ) and went into 
the water with all his children, and with all his property, with 
all his rice, and with all his cattle; and Bey Farma remained 
and lived there; then he went forth, and waged war against all 
the Temne country, and went all over it. He expelled the Bakas, 
who where formerly at Port-Loko, and who went down the river 
in canoes toward the West; 3 ) and the Maruns, 4 ) and all the 
people fled; he also expelled the Boloms and the Queas, and 
they came away from Port-Loko; he entirely expelled (the people) 
on the whole of the Rokel, and thev all fled. 



1) That is in the Limba country. 

2) Or „fied". 

3) See what is stated about this people in the Preface § 4. d. 

4) By this name the Settlers were called, who first settled 
at Sierra Leone. 

l* 



— 4 — 

Kg o yira ka an-tof na Kwea, o tsim he so; o fi, kg pa 
tsia ton, na tsim fe so. Kon' o trori a-fam ka-tsim; ka-tsim 
ka yi he tapan. Be Farma o tora am-bantra. 1 ) Farma Tami 
o sek o-poto, 2 ) o ko fal; o sek g-bal, 2 ) o kg fal, mo o tasi-ko. 
Tr'el tra yi he so, ko pa won 'a tsim fe so (or: kg pa won 
ka 'a mgta tsim). Kg pa won ka ka-tsim ka ma der, ha Pa 
Korombo g yokane g-kelfa; g dim an-tgf a-ternne be, g tsim 
ha g bek ng-Bake Lgkg. tsim he ng-Bake Lokg, g tila gbo 
ka am-p6to. Mg g pal ka-der no-Bake Lgkg, ka-pelr 2 ) aka g dira, 
g yif a-fet a-runi;. g yoka-ha, g kara-na, g re tila. Mg g bap 
g-komra, g kori g-komra, g wura tr'ota de ma-ber, g sgh g- 
komra, g pa hg: „Be gw'an-ka-mu g beka am'glg, I tsi tila- 
kg." wura a-pihkar, o son-ni ka g-riini. Na gbali he dif-ko; 
'a trap-kg, aii-gbatg ha wgn fe; 'a sutara-kg a-pihkar, ama-pilor 
ma wop he kg; g gbali falir. Be g der ra-pelr, g tohkla ah- 
fam, o tit-ha, o tila-ha. Ah-gbato-h'gh ha yi k'gng. 

Korombo g hatr, g dim tra-petr tramat ro kin, kg g pa hg: 
„I tsim fe so." O-kelfa ka Korombo, Ya Fura, g trama kadi, 
g kg trap aka-tsim; kg g gbip a-fam, g dif a-fam tahkah. An- 
tgf a-tgrgh ha tohkla r'afa ra-bana, 'a re gbah-kg ka as'oh be, 
ka ar'afa ra trap ka-tsim ro-tgrgh. 

Korombo Funti kgng yi g-kelfa g-baki, ka 'a tsim an- 



1) Lit. „B. F. brought down the bow", which phrase is 
equivalent to: „B. F. b. d. the war." They assert that there 
was no rainbow before his time, and that none was seen till he 
came; for which reason they call the rain-bow to this very day: 
am-bantra ha Farma, „Farma's bow;" or also: am-b. ha k'uru, 
„the bow of heaven." 

2) The Singular for the Plural. 



— 5 — 

Then he stilled in (he Quea country , and did not wage 
war again; he died, and it remained so then, they did not fight 
again. He taught people the art of war; there was no war be- 
fore. Bey Farma was the first who waged war. Farina the 
Conquerer tied white men (Europeans), and went and cut their 
throat; he tied kings, and went and cut their throat ; because 
he was superior to them. There was no matter again, and for 
a long time they did not fight again, (or: and it was long be- 
fore they warred again). It was long before war was coming, 
till Mr. Korombo rose up as a warrior; he destroyed the whole 
Temne country, he fought till he reached here to Port-Loko. ') 
Here at Port Loko he did not fight, he only traded with 
the Europeans. When he was ready to come here to Port 
Lokg, at the towns, where he slept, he asked for boys; he 
took them and brought them, and went and sold them. When 
he met with a woman in childbed, he saluted (or: went to see) 
the woman in childbed; he took on! cloths and palmwine (or: 
liquor), and gave (them) to the woman, and said: „\Yhen thy 
child is worth the amount, 1 shall sell it." He took out a gun, 
and gave it to the husband. They were not able to kill him; 
they chopped him, (but) the cutlas did not enter (his bod^); 
they shot at him with a gun, (but) the balls did not hit him; 
and he was able to fly. When he came to a town, he assembled 
the people, selected (a number of) them, and sold them. His 
sword was a turkish sabre. 

Korombo went up the country, and destroyed six towns; 
then he said: „I do not fight again." An officer of Korombo, 
Ya Fura, he placed himself at the head, he went and began 
the war; he caught people, and killed many of them. The East- 
country collected a large army, they went and prevented 2 ) him 
in all the roads, and the army began war in the East. 

Korombo Funti was an old captain, and they invaded the 



1) It is to be borne in mind that the speaker lived at Tor 
Loko, and that it was written I line. 

2) Or: „ way-laid him etc." 



— 6 — 

tgf a-temne bo; ka 'a kg tsim an-lgf a-lgkg be, ka 'a pon hi dim, 
ha w'riui k'in o tsla be ri. Ka 'a kgne ka an-tof a-h'mba, 'a 
tsim ri so, ka 'a poh-'i; ka 'a pon dim tra-tgf tramat ro h'ahle. 
An-tof ana beka trgfatr-o, Ya Fura o pa ho: „I kgne, ar'afa- 
ra-mi ra lasar." Korombo o pa rghgh: „Tse ko;" kere o kono, 
o tsia Korombo g-k'olfa g-baki; ko o ko tsim an-tgf ana beka 
trofatr, o dim-hi. Ana beka trgfatr n'in-e o ko tsim ri, o bek 
ratron. Ka ah-fam, ana o pon bal ka tra-tof tramat ro kin, na 
kal, na der ha mcihkne Ya Fiira; kere kono tr'a he tsi. R'afa 
ra-bana ra der tsim-ko, ha bal-ko; o der yira ratron; ha der 
tsim-ko ri, kere ha gbali he. Kg g som g-kelfa g-lgm ka Ko- 
rombo traka kane-kg hg: ,,'A tsim-mi, der mar-mi." Kere g- 
kelfa, gwg g som, g bap ro-r'oh ah-fam, aha mahkne Ya Fhra, 
ka 'a tsim-kg ma-rei tramat ro kin. Kg g-kelfa g-baki g kalane 
ka Ya Fura; kere ah-fam-h'gh ha kgne ka Korombo, ha kane- 
kg hg: ,,'A poh-su ro-r'oh." De g-kelfa g-baki g kg kane sg 
Ya Fura hg : „Na poh-su ro-r'oh." Ma Ya Fura g tral atse, 
g yokane de ar'afa-r'gh be, ha der tsim ro-r'oh y'of ye-rah, 
kg g fgl-he-tas. Kg Korombo g yefa ro-pil, g der gbah's Ya 
Fura ro-r'oh traka mar-kg tra tsim. Ya Fura ar'afa-r'gh ra yi 
k'eme k'in; ha bek sg ka-petr ka-lgm, ka ah-fam ha ka-petr ha 
dim-ha. Ka ar'afa, ara yi rorarah-e, ra lal, ha re tas be, ka ha 
sek ah-fam be, ha tol e-set-'e-hah; kere aha 'a gbip, ha dif he ha. 
Ka ha der bap sg ka-petr ka-lgm; aha ma trama rodi, ha poh ha dif 



— 7 — 

whole Temne country; then they went and invaded the whole 
Loko country, and destroyed it entirely, so that not one person 
was left there. Then they went into the Limha country, and 
invaded it also, and destroyed it; and they destroyed nine coun- 
tries entirely. Respecting the tenth country, Ya Fura said: „I go, 
my army is complete." Korombo said to him: „l)o not go;" 
but he went, and left to Korombo an old captain; then he went 
and invaded the tenth country, and destroyed it. With regard 
to the eleventh he went and invaded it, and reached the middle 
(of it). And the people, whom he had expelled from six coun- 
tries, returned, they came and way-laid Ya Fura; but he did 
not know it. A large army came to fight against him, they 
drove him away; he came and sat down between (them); they 
came to fight with him there, but did not sueceed. And he 
sent some officer to Korombo to tell him: „They fight against 
me, come and help me." But the officer, whom he sent, met 
in the road with the people, who way-laid Ya Fura, and for six 
days they fought with him. Then the old officer returned to 
Ya Fura; but his people went to Korombo, and said to him: 
„They have destroyed 1 ) us in the road." And the old officer 
went and told also Ya Fura : „They have destroyed us in the 
road." When Ya Fura heard this, he rose up and all his army, 
they came and fought in the road two months, and it was not 
easy to pass. And Korombo departed from the West, and came 
to meet Ya Fura in the road, and to help him to fight. As to 
Ya Fura's army it amounted to one hundred (men); they arrived 
again at another town, and the people of the town destroyed 
them. And the army, which formed the rear, 2 ) was numerous, 
they came and passed all along, and they tied all the people, 
and burned their houses; but they whom they took prisoners, 
they did not kill them. And they came and met again another 
town; as to those who were in advance, 3 ) they entirely killed them 



1) Or: „routed." 

2) Lit. „ which was behind". 

3) The avant-guard. 



— 8 — 

bo; kere a-laT ria bek so, ria Isim, ka ria dif ari-fam, na tas. 
Na der so bap ka-petr ka-lgm, ka ana trama rodi, ria yi 
tr'eme tra-rari, ria dim-ria so be; kore ar'afa ra-lal rorarari 
ra bek, ria tsim ari-fam, ria dif-ria, ka ria tas. Ma ria kg 
bap so ka-petr ka-lom, Ya Fura o pa hg: „Mari gbari'sano ka- 
petr." Ka ria gbari'sane ka-petr ka-tsi, 'a tsim ri ma-rei tramat 
ro kin; ka 'a pori dif ar'afa ra Ya Fura, ria tsia gbo a-tan. Ma 
ria der kane ar'afa, aria marikne Ya Fura ho: „Korombo o bek!" 
ria gbuke; ka Ya Fura g to! ri be, g tas, g kg bap Korombo. 
Korombo g kane-kg hg: „Mari kalane; I kane-mu t.ipari: tse kg. 
Ma narik ma ria pori dif ari-wut ria ari-fam-i?" Ka ria kalane 
sg. Aria pori kg karika Ya Fura, ria tra pori kg na wop, mg 
Korombo g bek, g der bal ari-fam. Ya Fura, mg g kal-e, g der 
gbo yira ha g fi; w'lini g dif he kg. Kere atra-petr-tr'gri be 
w'an duni g yi he ri sg, a-fet gbo de a-bom; a-lariba ria vi he ri, 
ria pori ria dif ro-torgri. Kg Korombo g kal botr a-lahba ri be ka 
tra-petr tra-tsi be, kg g tsia sg g-kelfa g-bana son; g tam ari-fam 
ka 'ra-ru be, am-poto 6 am-bi 6 be- Ka ka-lapsg ria dif kg. 



Korombo, mo o tam a-fam be, tsiari ria botra-ko varifa 
traka meinar ko dif. Ka ria sori-ko a-bera a-ebati; 'a kane am- 
bera ria-tsi, ma ria ma ru-kg ari-fon-e, kama ria kara ari-fon- 
ri'gri. Am-butu, ro o mo botr ara-bomp-r'gri, mg g fanta, ah-lg 
ria ma kg yak-e, am'antr ama 'a wek, ria botr am'antr ma-tsi ka 



— 9 — 

all; but many arrived again, and they fought, and killed the 
people, and passed on. They came and met again another lovvn, 
and those who were in advance, 1 ) amounted to two hundred 
(men), and they destroyed the whole of them also; but the gross 
of the army (which was) behind 2 ) arrived, they fought against 
the people, and killed them, and then passed on. When they 
went ami met again another town, Ya Fura said: „Let us sur- 
round the town." And they surrounded that town, and fought 
there six days, and they entirely killed the army of Ya Fura, 
only few were left. When they came and told the army, which 
way-laid Ya Fura: „Korombo has arrived!" they fled; then Ya 
Fura burned the whole place, and passed on, and went to meet 
Korombo. Korombo said to him: „Let us return; I told thee 
before: do not go. Doest thou see how they have killed the 
children of the people?" And they returned again. As to those, 
who had gone and enclosed Ya Fura on all sides, they would 
have apprehended him, if Korombo had not arrived, who came 
and drove away the people. As to Ya Fura, when he returned, 
he just came and settled in a place till he died; nobody killed 
him. But as regards all his towns there was no youth again, 
(but) only children and women; young men were not there, they 
had killed them all in the Fast. And Korombo located again 
young men every where in all those towns, and he was left the 
only great warrior again; he vanquished the people in the whole 
world, both all the white and the black men. At last they kil- 
led him. 

As to Korombo, because he conquered all people, therefore 
they acted deceitfully against him in order to try to kill him. 
They gave him many women, and told those women (that) when 
they were plaiting his hair, they might bring his hair. As for 
the pillow, whereon he was putting his head, when he lay down 
(they told them), that when they were going to wash (it), the 
water which they wring out, they should put that water into 

1 ) The avant-guard. 

2) That is, the rear! 



— 10 — 

a-bilra, ria kere -ria ka am -Mori. Mo o gbak e-santrak, o pa 
ka am-bera: „Ko fita-mi-yi." Ka ria ydka ria kere-yi ka ari-fam, 
aria ten-ko ara-bomp-e. Ma ria kane-ko ho: „Mari kone gban- 
ne;" ria ko gbo ka ari-gbanne na-tsi. Ko Korombo o ba r'afa 
ra-bana: kere ar'afa-r'ori o ba, ria pori ko won yarifa. Na tonto 
Korombo, kama o der traka dif-ko; kore kono tr'a he t.si Ka 
am-bal ria ten r'afa ra-bana; ria pori kone tralrak ro ka Korombo. 
Mo o der gbanne-ria, ar'afa ra gbalro ro-kant be; a-bal tramat 
ro kin ria der yira ka k'antr k'in. O-baT, owd yi ow'uni-k'ori 
gberi, o yira ka ak'antr. Mq Korombo o bek, ria kulo, ria liri- 
ko, o yfra ka ka-trori ka a-bal ria-rciri, ria tra kulo; Korombo 
o tra kulo. Na yif-ko ho: „\V'an-ka-su, ko Ir'eT tra ma pori- 
su-e?" Ko owo liri-ko, o botr-ko ka e-larik-y'ori, o tra kulo. 
O-baT o-lom o nol-ko, o bolr-ko ka e-larik-y'ori. Korombo o 
lakte, o fanta ka e-larik ya o-bal, owo ba a-balma. Ko o-bal 
ka-tsi o wura am-balma, o rok-ko ka ka-lim, o fal-ko; am-bal 
a-lom be ria gbuke, ria vvori ro-kan!. Korombo o yokane, o pa 
ho: „Man tsim nari!*' Ko o dif a-kelfa Irofatr. Mo o kal botr 
ari-gbato-ri'ori ka am-bom-ria-tsi, o fiimpo, ko o fi. 



Ar'etr ra gbepar gberi, ko o f'umpo; ka ma ar'etr ra mdtra, 
ria narik fe ri so, ha pa beka ma-re'i tramat ro kin. Aria beka 
ma-rei tramat de rari, ma ar'etr ra gbepar 'ra-bomp ratrori, ka 
ria mot ri narik. Kere Korombo, ria pori ko dif; kere o tra 
gbalap; ha ria marik-ko o tra gbalap. Ka ari-gbato-ri'ori, w'uni 
6 w'uni o gbali he rii wura ka am-bom; ta ovv'an-k'ori, kono der 



— 11 — 

a bottle, ') and carry it to the Mori-men. When he cut Ihe nails, 
he said to the women: ,.Go and throw them 2 ) away for me." 
And they took (them), and carried them to the people, who 
sought his life. 3 ) When they said to him: „ Let us go and meet 
together;" they just went to that meeting. And Korombo had 
a large army; but bis army which he had, had entered into a 
conspiracy against him. They coaxed Korombo, that he might 
come in order to kill him; but he did not know it. And the 
kings raised a large army; they had gone to Korombo's place 
at night. When he came to meet them, the army was all 
around the wood (where they met); six kings came and sat 
upon one log of timber. A king, who was of his own family, 
sat upon the log. When Korombo came, they cried, they drew 
him close, and he sat between two kings, they were crying; 
Korombo was crying. They asked him: „Friend, 4 ) why hast 
thou destroyed us?" And he who had drawn him close, put 
him upon his lap, and was crying. Another king took him, and 
put him upon his lap. Korombo looked up, he lay in the lap 
of a king, who had a dagger. Then that king took out the 
dagger, cut him into the neck, and cut his throat; all the other 
kings fled, and went into the wood. Korombo got up and said: 
„Let us fight togother!" And he killed ten captains. When he 
had put the cutlass again into its sheath, he fell down and died. 
The sun had just reached the Meridian, when he fell down; 
and when the sun set, they did not see it again, for the space 
of six days. On the seventh day, when the sun reached the 
Meridian, then only they saw it. But as regards Korombo, they 
had killed him; but he was (still) twinkling with the eyes; till 
they buried him he was twinkling with the eyes. As to his 
sword, nobody was able to unsheath it; except his son, he came 



1) That is: ,thcy should put the water, which they wring 
out, into a bottle etc.' 

2) That is ,the cuttings of them'. 

3) Lit.: „wbo sought bis head." 

4) Lit. „Our friend etc" 



— 12 — 

wura-ni. Mo o pon fi, w'uni 6 w'uni o yoka ra-kelfa, ka 
ria tsim. 

Ka-tsim ka pon tabana, pa tof'la ka an-tof a-temne be; 1 ) 
'a tsela am-poto, 'a der gbanne. Ka am-bal 6, am-poto 6, na 
fof d'im r'in, na pa ho: „Tr' 'a tse yo so r'afa ra-bana, tambe 
r'afa tra-gba tra-rah, de tra-gba tra-sas gbo; pa pon. Be w'uni 
o yo r'afa tni-gba Ir'ahle, o fumpo k'asi, tr' o ram; pakasifc Q 
jema lasar an-tof. Yo Korombo o yo lapan, o lasar an-lof. 



Ara-bomp II. 

Ma-Kane ma an-Temne ma-kur traka ka-Trapi ara-Rii 
de an-Fam a-trdtroko. 

Ah-kas-'a-su na kane he su o-Ial traka ka-bempa 'ra-rfi, ha 
kane-su gbo fo 2 ) mo K'riru o bempa ara-nl-e, o ren'-ri ka 'ra- 
bomp ra w'rini bana, 3 ) owo yi rorata. Ow'tini owe kono sara 
ara-ru. Na kane-sn fo ey'intr be, de ak'ereh be, de ey'etr be, 
eye loko ka 'ra-rQ, e yi ah-fon na 'ra-bomp ra ow'tini owe; 
de ey'etr e-hesam be e yi atr'ar tra 'ra-bomp-r'oh. 4 ) Owo 'a 
reh tapah ara-ru ka 'ra-bomp-e, o pon fi, w'uni lorn kono 



1) Or: „tbe whole Temne country became quiet (pacified'." 

2) Or : fo ara-ru are ra rensa ka 'ra-bomp ra w'Qni bana, etc., 
„that this world was on the top of the head of a giant, etc." 

3) According to some: -ra a-sem a- bana, „of a large ani- 
mal, etc." 

4) Or: Ii'aka 6 r'cika ka 'ra-ni be, ak'ereh, de ey'intr be, 
e yi an-fon-n'on. E-lop 6 r'a ra-hesam be, aha yi ro-tof de 
ro-m'antr na yi atr'ar-tr'on. „Every thing in this world, the 
grass and all the trees are his hair. The fish and every living 
(•nature, which is on the earth or in the water, are his lice." 



— 13 — 

and unshealhed it. When he was dead, every one took upon 
him the office of a captain of the army, and they fought together. 
War was now at an end for ever, ') and there was peace 
in all the Temne country; they called the white people; they 
came and met together. And the kings and the white people 
made an agreement, they said: 2 ) Let none raise a large army 
again, except an army of forty, or of sixty (men) only; it is 
sufficient. If any one raises an army of eighty (men), he be- 
comes liable to a fine, he must pay (for it); because he wants 
to spoil the country. Thus Korombo did before, and spoiled 
the country. 

Chapter II. 

Traditions of the Temne s respecting the Creation of 
the World and of the first Men. s ) 

Our fathers did not tell us mnch about the creation of the 
world, they only told us that when God made the world, he 
put it on the head of a giant, who was below (it). 4 ) This 
person carries the world on the head. They told us that 
all the trees, and all the grass, and all things, which grow 
on this earth, 5 ) are the hair of the head of tin's giant; and 
all living creatures are the lice of his head. He, on whose 
head the world was put before, has died, and another man 



1) Little quarrels excepted as mentioned before. 

2) Sense: „And the Chiefs and the Europeans made an 
agreement to this effect that none should raise an army exceed- 
ing, etc." 

3) We may head this Chapter also as follows: 

An Account of the Creation of the World and of man 

as received by the Temnes according to the Traditions 

delivered to them by their Ancestors. 

4) The Temnes believe the earth to be a round fiat body. 
In the same way the sacred books of the Hindus represent the 
earth as resting on the back of a turtle of an immense size, and 
that earthquakes arise in consequence of a movement of this turtle. 

5) Lit. „iu this world, etc." 



— 14 — 

kal sara ara-ru are. Ma 'a reh-ko 'ra-ru, o yira, o sake ro-toron. 
Na kane-su fo bw'uni owe o sake; kere o sake soT, ha a-fani na 
gbali he tsi trara; tambe ah-lo na mo sake ro-pil, a-fam na 
trara-tsi; pakasife ah-lo ha-tsi an-tof ha bone, 1 ) ha e-set de 
y'intr e fiimpo. Ah-lo hah ow'iini owe o mo fiimpo, o fi-e, 
ara-ru be ra poh, de r'tika 6 r'aka ka 'ra-ru are ra tra dinne. 
Pa won gbo-e K'uru o yoka ara-ru are, kama o kal botr ra-ru 
ra-fu. K'dru o bempa he ra-ru ra-bak tabana; pa won o kal 
botr ra-ru ra-fu. Atra ah-fam a-bi, de am-poto ha tra pa traka 
ara-ru, fo ara-ru are ra tra poh loko lom, tra yi tra-tseh. 



Ka ka-trap, mo K'uru o bempa ara-ru, o bempa a-fam ha- 
rah ka an-tof, 2 ) o-runi re o-bera. Ah-lo hah K'tiru o bempa 
'ra-ru, w'uni 6 w'uni o yi he ri ha ka ah-rei mo K'uru o bempa 
o-runi de o-bera. Mo K'uru o poh bempa-ha, ha yira gbo, o 
son fe ha r'a ra-di. Na tralne d'or, ka ha pa ka K'uru: „Ma 
poh bempa-su; kere ko r'aka sa ma di-e?" Ka ah-lo ha-tsi ha 
tr'a he r'aka 6 r'aka. Tsiah K'Qru o kane-ha fo o tra soh-ha r'a 
ra-di. K'uru o soh-ha pa-la pa-fera, kama ha yo-pi a-gbera; hia 
ma ruhkatr re m'antr, ha yo-hi ka-bo, ha di. 3 ) Na ta nam fe so 

1) Or: mo o sake gbo ro-pil-e, ara-ru be ra bone, etc., 
„as soon as he turns towards the West, there arises an earth- 
quake, etc." 

2) Or: Mo K'uru o trapi ara-ru be, o wura a-fam ha-rah, etc. 
„When God created the whole world, he took out two per- 
sons, etc." 

3) Or: Na tralne d'or, 'a pa ka am-bol (owh mo yo ma- 
pant ka-troh-ka-hah de ka-troh ka K'uru): „Mo K'uru o wiira- 
su and, ko sa ma re di-e?" Am-bol o kdne, o ko kane K'uru. 
K'iiru o wura pa-la pa-fera, o son ka am-bol, o kere-pi. wura 
tra-ronip de tra-dir, o son ka am-bol, o kara-tsi. Apa-la pla 
ma ko gbam, 'a runkatr-hi re m'antr; hia ha ma di. „They 
felt hungry, and they said to the servant (who was transacting 
matters between them and between God): „As God has taken us 
out here, what shall we go eat?" The servant departed, and 



— 15 — 

carries this world again on the head. When they put the world 
on him, he was in a sitting posture, and turned towards the East. 
They told us that this person turns himself, but that he turns softly, 
so that people cannot know it; 1 ) except that time when he turns 
towards the West, then men know it; 2 ) because at that time there 
arises an earthquake, 3 ) so that houses and trees fall down. At 
that time when this person falls down, and dies, the whole world 
is at an end, and every thing in this world will perish. After a 
long time God will ake this world away, that he may put again 
a new world. God did not make a world lasting forever; after 
a long time he will put a new world again. What the black 
and the white people say respecting the world, that this world 
will be at an end some day, is truth. 

In the beginning, when God made the world, he made two 
persons on the earth, a male and a female. At that time 
when God made the world, there was no man in it till the day 
when God made the male and the female. When God had made 
them, they just sat down, he did not give them any thing to 
eat. They felt hungry, and they said to God: ,.Thou hast made 
us; but what thing shall we eat;" At that time they did not 
know any thing. Therefore God told them that he will give 
them something to eat. God gave them clean rice, that they 
might make flour of it ; this they were to mix with water, and 
to make a cake of it, and to eat it. They had not yet seen 



went and told (it) to God. God took out clean rice (i. e. de- 
prived of the husks), and gave (it' to the servant, and he carried 
it. lie took out pestles and mortars, and gave (them) to the 
servant, who brought them. As for the rice, they were to go 
and beat it to powder, and to mix it (i. e. the flour of it) with 
water; and this they were to eat." 

1) Or: „are not aware of it." 

2) Or: „are aware of it." 

3) Lit. „the earth moves, etc. 



— 16 — 

r'a ra-di ra-lom. K'uru o son fe na n'antr an -lo ha-tsi. 
Ar'a ra-di are iia di ka-reri k'in. Ka-nirah-ka-tsi na yif K'uru 
so: „Are ria sa ma di gbo loko 6 loko-i?" ') Tsian K'uru o 
kane-ha: „Tra ba he Ir'eT, I tsi son-nu so r'a ra-di ra-lom traka 
di. Ka ka-ren aka beka tra-rah-e K'uru o soh-ha y'etr e-di 
be, 2 ) de e-sem ana yi o-16mpi traka di; o somra ka am-bol. 
kama o kere-yi, yia na ma ko di. Ka an-lo ha-tsi o trori-ha 
so e-sem, aha ma tse di-e. E-lom 'a ma tse di-e. kara-yi 
be rokin, o gbaski-yi; g botr eye 'a ma di-e toko; eye 'a ma 
tse di-e, o botr-yi tdko; o trori-ha eye 'a ma di, de eye 'a ma 
tse di. Ah-lo ha-tsi ha tr'a he tr'el 6 tr'el, tambe traka ka-di 
gbo. Ka-rarah-ka-lsi K'uru o trori-ha e-trol be, de ey'etr be 
traka yo ma-pant ka an-tof, ka-trala, de a-sapar, de ka-bap, de 
a-b6ka; o soh-ha so n'antr. Na trama a-tsih, ha ba he y'gtr 
e-16pra. 

Ma 'a nauk ha ba y'etr e-di e-lal, ha som am-bol, kama 
o ko kane K'uru ho: „Tete sa ba y'etr e-di e-lal; kere sa yi 
gbo na-ran: tro sa ma yo-e sa yi a-lal-e 9 " K'iiru o pa: „Tra 
ba he tr'el; kar-mi." K'uru o ko bah a-trol, tra-bot tramat re 
sas, o son ka am-bol, kama o kere-tsi, de kama ha di-tsi. 3 ) 



1) Or: Na ta nam fe so r'a ra-di ra-lom. Tsiah ha kane 
so am-bol, kama o ko kane K'uru fo ye: „Eye yia sa ma di gbo 
loko 6 loko-i?" „They bad not seen as yet any other food. 
Therefore they told the servant again, that he might go and tell 
God thus: „These things them we shall eat oidy always?" 

2 1 Or: K'uru o kal wiira y'etr e-di be, „God took out again 
all sorts of victuals." 

3) Or: Ma ha yif K'uru yah-e, K'uru o kalane; ko tete o 
som am-boi-h'oh. Am-bol o kara-ha e-trol e-lom, kama ha di-yi, 
kama ha yi a-lal. „When they asked God thus, God returned; 
and presently he sent his servant. The servant brought them 
some medicines, that they might eat them, (and) that they might 
increase." Or also: Ma ha yif K'iiru yah-e, K'uru o pa: „Tra 
ba he tr'el, kar-mi." Ko K'dru o ko bah a-trol, tra-bot tramat 
re sas; atra-rah tra-fera o son ka am-bol, kdma o kere-tsi. 
Am-boi o kere an-trol, o ko soh-ha. O-bera o pa fo, etc. „When 
they asked God thus, God said: „It is of no consequence, wait 



— 17 — 

any other food. God did not give them fire at that time. This 
food they ate for one year. Afterwards they asked God again,: 
„This only we shall eat always?" Therefore God told them: 
„It does not matter, I shall give you also some other thing to 
eat." In the second year God gave them all sorts of victuals, 
and animals which were proper to be eaten; he sent (them) by 
the servant, that he might carry them, and these they were to 
go to eat. At that time he showed them also the animals, 
which they were not to eat. Some they were not to eat. He 
brought them all together, and separated them; he put those 
which they were to eat by themselves; those which they were 
not to eat, he put by themselves; he showed them those which 
they were to eat, and those which they were not to eat. At 
that time they did not know any thing but to eat only. After- 
wards God showed them all kind of medicines, and all sorts of 
tools to do work with in the ground, 1 ) as a hoe, and a digger, 
and an axe, and a bill-hook; he also gave them fire. They were 
naked, and had no clothes. 

When they saw that they had plenty of victuals, they sent 
the servant, that he might go and tell God: „No\v me have 
plenty of food; but we are only two: what (how) must we do 
to increase?" God said: „It is of no consequence; wait me." 
God went and fetched medicine, eight pills, and gave (them) to 
the servant, thai he might carry them, and that they might eat 
them. 



me." Then God went to fetch medicine, eight pills; the two white 
ones he gave to the servant, that he might carry them. The 
servant carried the medicine, and gave (it) to them. The woman 
said that, etc." 

1) I. e. ,agricultural implements.' 

Temue • Sagen. 2 



— 18 — 

Fq K'uru o bempa-ria ria-ran ria trara-tsi; kere iia tr'a he, ma 
'a ma yO na yi a-lal. Ma am-bgl o kara e-trgl-e, g-bera o pa 
fg kgng mo mot di an-lrgl; kere am-boT o selg he traka tsi, o 
pa: „Kar-mi, kama 1 kg trgri-tsi ka Pa." Tsian o kalane traka 
k£ne K'riru, atra g-bera g pon pa-e. K'uru g pa ka am-bgl: 
„Kg sgn-kg atra-bana tra-rah, kama g mgt tsi di." Ka am-bgl 
g kdne, g son-ko-tsi; kg g-bera g di atra-ran. Tsian g-bera 
g tas traka a-fela; tsian a-bera be na ma trQ k'or, ma an'of na 
las, talgm ma an'of na fi. l ) Am-bgl g wura an-tramat ro kin, 
atra tsia, g sgn g-runi tra-sas re g-bera tra-sas. O-runi g di 
an-trgl-n'gn, g mun sg m'antr. 2 ) Ma na pon di e-trgl-e, iia 
ba fgsa traka sgtg a-wut; kere atr'ei atse tra gbali he yi, tambe 
'a lekane. K'uru g yif am-bgl fg: „Na di an-trgl-i?" Am-bgl 
g wosa. Kg K'uru g sgh-kg a-trgl a-lgm, g pa: „Kg botr ma-lap 
ka gw'uni bom, kg botr ka-bak ra-fgr ka gw'an duni. Tsian a-fam 
a-runi be na yi a-baki ra-fgr; tsian sg a-fam a-bom na ba ma-lap. 
An-fela na bak-na na-ran tra lekane; kere g-bera g gbali he trap, 



1) Or: Am-boT g kdne, g kg bek ka K'uru, g pa: ,,0-bera 
g pa ho kgng mg mot di an-trgl." K'uru g kane-kg fg kama 
g yg mg g-bera g yema, kama g mgt di an-trol. E-trol e yi 
tra-bot tramat re sas: g-bera g yoka atra ta yi tra-bana, g di- 
tsi. Tsiau a-bera be na yenk he sg ma-der ka an'of a-fi, de 
ka an'of a-las." The servant departed, and went and came to 
God, and said: „The woman said that she must first eat the 
medicine." God told him that he might do as the woman want- 
ed, and that she might first eat the medicine. The medicines 
consisted of eight pills : the woman took the two larges ones, and 
ate them. This is the reason that all women are not well again 
at new moon, and at full moon." 

2) Or: Ma na na-ran 'a pon di e-trgl-'e-nan, na yerane e- 
trgl tramat ro kin, eye tsia; g-bera o sgtg e-sas, g-runi g sgtg 
e-sas. Ma iia pon di, etc. „When they both had eaten their 
medicine, they divided the six medicines, which were left among 
each other; the woman got three, and the man got three. When 
they had eaten, etc." 



— 19 — 

That God made them two the\ knew it; but they did not 
know, how (what) they must do to increase. When the servant 
brought the medicine, the woman said that she must first eat the 
medicine; but the servant was not willing for it, he said: „\Vait 
me, that I may go and inform the Master of it." Therefore he 
returned in order to tell God, what the woman had said. God 
said to the servant: „Go and give her the two large ones, that 
she may eat them first." And the servant went, and gave them 
to her; and the woman ate the two. This is the reason that 
the woman has a stronger (sexual) desire; this is the reason 
that all women have the menses when the moon is full, or when 
the moon is new. ! ) The servant took out the six (pills), which 
were left, and gave three to the man and three to the woman. 
The man ate his medicine, and drank also water. When they 
had eaten the medicine, they had power 2 ) to get children; but 
this thing could not happen, unless they had a sexual commerce 
with each other. God asked the servant: „Did they eat the 
medicine?" The servant answered in the affirmative. And God 
gave him another medicine, and said: „Go and put modesty on 
the woman, and boldness on the man." This is the reason that 
all men are bold; this is also the reason that women are modest. 
The desire to have a sexual commerce with each other was 
strong with both of them; however the woman could not begin, 



1) Lit. „is dead", = „is done". 

2) Or „ ability tt - 

2* 



— 20 — 

o lap traka yg-tsi; kere g-runi kdng ta baki ra-fgr, kdng 
kg trap tra yg-tsi. l ) Ma 'a fanta, g-bera g yoka k'or. Ma 
am-bgl g der, o-bera g trgri-kg ak'or; am-bgl g kg trgri 
K'uru, fg g-bera ak'or- k'gn ka bana. K'liru g sgh -kg y'etr 
e-ldpra tra kg sgh-ha, ka g-bera re g-runi. kara-yi, g re 
sgh-ha. Ma ak'dr-k'gh ka poh bak, g kom w'ahet runi o-bi. 
kal yoka k'or, kg g kom w'ahet bera g-fera. O-bera g kal 
sg yoka k'or, g kom tra-bari, w'ahet runi re w'ahet bera; g-runi 
g yi g-fera, kg g-bera g yi o-bi. Ma am-bgl g der, 'a kane- 
kg, kama g kg kane K'uru fg: „Sa sgtg a-fam n'anle." Am-bgl 
g kgne, g kg kane K'uru, fg ah-fam, ana g bempa, na poh sgtg 
a-wut; aha-riini ha rah, de aha-bera ha ran. 2 ) Mg g kg kane 
K'uru, K'uru g yif fg: „Tro ha yi-e?" Kg g pa hg: „ O-runi 
g bi, g-bera g fera, kg g-runi g-lgm g fera, de g-bera g-lgm g 
bi; tsiah 'a pa, kama I re yif-mu fg tro 'a ma yg-ha-e." K'uru 
g pa: „Kgne, kg gbaski-ha; kere aha-fera ro-m'antr rayer; aha- 
bi botr-ha ro-gbah." Am-bgl g der, g gbaski-ha, g yg mg K'uru 
g som-kg; g kg trgri K'uru fg: „I poh yg ma ma poh pa." 
K'uru g wura y'etr be, g sgh sg ka am-bgl, g pa „Kgne". Aha 
ro-gbah g sgh, kama g kere-ha y'etr e-ygna ma-pant be ro-tgf; 



1) Or — — kdng yg-tsi. Ka-rarah-ka-tsi g bera g yoka 
k'or, kg g kom w'ahet runi g-bi. O-bera g yoka sg k'or, kg 
g re kom w'ahet bera g-fera. Aka beka ma-sas-e g kom tra- 
bari, g-runi g fera, g-bera g bi. Am-bgl g der, 'a kane, etc. 

„ he did it. After this the woman conceived, and she brought 

forth a black boy. The woman conceived again, and she brought 
forth a white girl. At the third time [lit. (at the parturition; which 
amounted to three (times)] she brought forth twins, the boy was 
white, and the girl was black. The servant came, they told, etc". 

2) Or: Ma am-bgl g der, g nahk-ha, g kgne, g kg kane 
K'uru, fo ah-fam ha rah. Tsiah K'uru o som-ko 

7 — O O - - 

sg, kama g gbaski ah-wut. Kg g der, g gbaski ah-wut a-fera 
ka ah-wut a-bi." When the servant came, and saw them, he 

left, and went and told God, that the people were two. 

Therefore God sent him again, that he might separate the chil- 
dren. And he came, and separated the white children from the 
black children." 



— 21 — 

she was ashamed to do it; but the man he was more bold, he 
began to do it. When they lay down, the woman conceived. 
When the servant came, the woman showed him (her) pregnan- 
cy ; 4 ) (and) the servant went and informed God, that as for 
the woman she was pregnant. 2 ) God gave him clothes to go 
and give them to them, to the woman 3 ) and to the man. He 
brought them, (and) came and gave them to them. When her 
pregnancy had come to the full time, she brought forth a blaek 
boy. She conceived again, and brought forth a white girl The 
woman conceived once more, and brought forth twins, a boy 
and a girl; the boy was white, and the girl was black. When 
the servant came, they told him, that he might go and tell God: 
„We have got four persons." The servant left, and went and 
told God, that the people, whom he had made, had got children; 
the boys were two, and the girls were two. When he went to 
tell God, God asked him: „Of what kind are they?" And he 
said: „A hoy is black, and a girl is white, and another boy is 
white, and another girl is black; therefore they said, that I 
might come and ask thee what (how) they must do with them." 
God said: „Go and separate them; 4 ) carry the white ones to 
the water side; as to the blaek ones locate them in the country." 
The servant came, and separated them, he did as God sent 5 ) him 
(to do); and w r ent and told God: „I have done as thou hast said." 
God took out all sorts of implements, and gave them to the servant, 
and said: „Go." For those in the country lie gave (to the servant), 
that he might carry to them all sorts of agricultural implements; 6 ) 



1) Lit. „the woman showed him the belly." 

2) Lit. „that the woman her belly was great" or „big". 

3> To this day, when a girl gets betrothed to her future 
husband, the latter gives her clothes, as she wears none before 
that time. 

4) Lit. „ Depart, go and separate etc." 

5) Or: „caused him etc." 

6) Lit. „things to do all sort of work with in the ground." 



— 22 — 

aha ro-m'antr, o ko yer-na y'etr e-yona ma-pant be ro- 
m'antr. Ka ah-fera o son a-fam a-trol, de ana sot-ah, de ana 
gbal. Ana ro-gbah, o son-na a-kabi. An-fam a-trol na bempa 
e-set traka an-fam a-fera, de tra-bil tra-poto traka kot ro-ban, 
kama ha soto a-kala, ko kama ha yi a-y6la; ko o botr-ha ro- 
m'antr raver. An-wut a-bi o botr ro-gbah, de ka tra-tseh, de 
ka tra-gbohko; o »ak'sa-ha traka bempa e-set e-nepal, de e-set 
e-sor, de traka baf k'or, ko o \o-ha tra yo ma-pant ma-baki be; 
kere a-fam a-fera ha ba he ka-yo 'ma-pant ame, ha ba he ka- 
yo e-1rol, ha tupas he; ama-trei ame be 'a botr-ha ka an-fam 
a-bi gbo. Tsiah an-fam a-fera, K'uru o reh-ha rokorn ka ah- 
fam a-bi trak' a-fosa 6, trak' a-kala 6, traka ka-tsemp 6; Lsiah 
w'rini fera, hali o yi gbo w'ahet riini, a-fam a-bi ha yi-ko ro- 
rata, ha minta he ko. Atra-bona be ka ra-ru are ha yefa ka 
ah-wut ahe a-fera, de ka an-wut ahe a-bi. 



Am-boT o ko kane K'uru fo: „I poh yer-ha." Mo o poh 
gbaski-ha, aha-fera ha ko kom a-wut tramat ro kin, aha-bi ha 
kom tramat ro kin; aha-fera a-b<jra a-sas de a-riini a-sas ; aha- 
bi a-runi a-sas de a-bera a-sas. Ma ah-wut ha-tsi ha poh bak, 
ha kal so kom, ahe tramat ro kin, ahe tramat ro kin. Aha-bi 
ya ha kom so, aha-fera ya ha kom so. Am-boi o ko kane 
K'uru fo: „Ah-fam ha ma la-ah." K'uru o pa ka am-boi: 



— 23 — 

as to those close the water side, he went and gave them all 
sorts of shipping implements. *) To the white people he gave 
artisans, and tavlors, and clerks. As to those in the country he 
gave them blacksmiths. The artisans made houses for the white 
people, and ships 2 ) for to walk on the sea; that they might get 
money, and that they might be gentlemen; and he put them close 
the water side. The black children he put in the country, and 
on hills, and in forests; he taught them to make grass-houses 
and mud-houses, and to make farms, and he made them to do 
all laborious work; but white people have not to do this work, 
they have not to make country-medicines, 3 ) thev do not practise 
divination; 4 ) as regards all these things, he put them only on 
the black people. Therefore, as regards the white people, God 
made them superior to the black people in power, and in pro- 
perty, and in intelligence; therefore, as regards a white person, 
although he be but a boy, black people are inferior to him, 
they dare not vie with him. All nations in this world descend 
from these white children, and from these black children. 

The servant went and said to God: „I have shared out to 
them." 5 ) When he had separated them, the white (people) 
went and brought forth six children, the black (people) went 
and brought forth six children; the white ones three females 
and three males; the black ones three males and three females. 
When those children had grown up, they also brought forth 
children again, these six, (and) these six. The black ones 
brought forth black children again, 6 ) the while ones brought 
forth white children again. 6 ) The servant went and told God: 
„The people are increasing." God said to the servant : 



1) Lit. „ things to do all sort of work with at sea." 

2) Lit. „white man's canoes," or „european canoes." 

3) Or „ charms, amulets." 

4) Or „ fortune telling." 

5) That is ,the various objects, as artisans, blacksmiths etc.' 
6i Lit. „the black (or white) ones in the same way they 

brought forth again. 



— 24 — 

„Ko yer-na tra-bona." kdne, o ko yer tra-bona sehk. Ana- 
fera ha ba tra-bdna-tra-hah, g-bera re g-runi g-k'in, g-bera re g- 
rrini o-k'in. Aha-bi, o ko yer-na tra-bona, mo o pori yer aiia- 
fera be; kere ana-fera na yi ra ka-petr k'in, de ana-bi na yi 
ra ka-petr k'in. Ma na ma beka a-lal-e, am bol o kg kane 
K'lirn fo: „Ari-fam-'a-mu 'a gbali ton-e." K'riru o pa: „Tr' 'a 
ko son-na an-tof na tra-bona-!ra-nan." Mo o der-e, o yer nm- 
po!o tra-tof tra-ebante be; o kal yer an-fam a-bi tra-tof tra- 
gbante, ma tra-bona Ira yi tra-lai. 



Ka ka-trap, mo K'urn o bempa w'uni, a-fam na yi fo traka 
fi, me e-suma ye ka ra-tru, de ka ka-bansa ma-der. An-lo na- 
tsi ra-tru ra yi he, ra-fi. ra yi he. An-lo na-tsi an-fam, ana 
R'uru o mot kara ka ra-ru-e, na tra kali ka-bak ka-bana; a-lom 

- - o o o o ' 

na kali na beka tra ren tr'eme tramat ro kin, 1 ) a-lom tr'eme 

o o — — 7 + — — ~ 

tramat re sas, a-lom na tasa yi; 2 ) na fi he, K'uru o som gbo, 
'a re ban-na. K'urumasaba o botr tapah m'etr ma-boli ka w'uni 
6 w'uni, o re bah he ko lemp. Be K'uru o yema yoka w'uni, 
mot som am-bol-h'oh rohon, owo mo re kane-ko, fo K'uru 
o som-ko tra re kori-ko, de tnika kane-ko, fo ah-ldko-h'oh ha 
poh, kama o benene. Ow'uni, ma am-boi o poh kane-ko yah-e, 
o benene traka aka-trel an-han; o som ka ah-fam-h'oh be, de 
ah-mane-h'oh, o lemne-ha. Mo o poh yo yah-e, ma ah-loko 
ha-tsi ha bek-e; am-boi ha K'uru o der so, ow'uni o yokane, 
o kgne gbo re am-boi, o nahk fe ra-fi. Ye pa yi traka w'uni 
6 w'uni ah-lo ha-tsi. 



1) Or: a-lom ha bak tra-reh tr'eme tramat ro kin, „some 
got six hundred years old," etc. 

2) Or: a-lom ha tasi; „some exceeded (this age). u 



— 25 — 

„Go and divide them into nations." He left, and went and divid- 
ed all the nations. The white (people) had their nations, always 
a woman and one man at a time.') As to the black (people), 
he went and divided them into nations, as he had divided all 
the white ones; but the white ones were in one town, and the 
black ones were in another town. When they were amounting 
to many, the servant went and said to God: „Thy people are 
numerous now." God said: ,.Let them go and give them the 
country of their nations." When he came, he gave to the white 
people all (their) various countries; (then) he relumed and gave 
to the black people (their) various countries, because the nations 
were numerous. 

In the beginning, when God made man, men had not to 
die, as at this time by sickness and by bodily pain. At that 
time there was no sickness, there was no death. At that time 
the people, whom God brought first into the world, were living 
to a great age; some were living (till) they reached six hundred 
years, some eight hundred, some more than that; they did not 
die, God only sent, (and) they came to fetch them. God fixed 
formerly a long time for every person, he did not come to 
fetch them quickly. 2 ) When God wanted to take away a per- 
son , (then) he first sent his servant to him, who was coming 
to tell him, that God had sent him to come and see him, and 
to tell him, that his time was up, that he might make himself 
ready. The man, when (after) the servant had told liim thus, 
made himself ready for the departure from his family; he sent 
to all his people, and to his friends, and bad farewell to them. 
When he had done thus, (and) when that time (spoken of) 
arrived; the servant of God came again, the man got up, and 
just went with the servant, he did not see death. Thus it was 
with every person at that time. 



li Lit. „a woman and one man, a woman and one man," 
or: „a woman with one man, etc.;" i. e. each couple formed 
one nation, as one the French, another the English, etc. 

2) Or „ abruptly". 



— 26 — 

Kere ka a-Igkg lorn 'a re kom g-lahba, gwg yi w'flni las, 
de w'uni kasra; kgng yi so w'uni bana, o ba a-kala a-gbati, do 
a-trar a-laT, de y'etr e-trgl e-laT, de e-bol e-lal; owo tse trara 
w'uni 6 w iini r'aka, o yo gbo mo o yema; o botr m'one ka 
ah-hah be: kono re trapi ka-fi ka 'ra-rfl. Mo K'uru o sofi-ko 
a-fosa a-bana, o yi o-kelfa, o yi o-yola. Am-bol o ko kane 
K'uru fo. „0\v'an-ka-mu o yi w'iini las." K'uru o pa ka am- 
bol: „Kone, ban-ko; kane-kg, fo an-lo-n'on na pon." Ma am- 
bol o der trdka ow'uni owe tra re ban-kg, o k;ine-kg mo K'uru 
o som-kg; kere g pa: „I selg he, I kg he; min' lahba ras." 1 ) 
Ka tra-reh tra-laT am-bgl g der tra bah-kg Igkg 6 lgkg; kere g 
selg he; kg g pa ka ka-lapsg fg g gbali he ri kg koko. Am- 
bgl g kalane, g kg kane K'uru f g : „Ow'an-ka-mu g selg he 
traka der." Mg K'firu g tral atse, g pa hg: „Yao, pa bgne-mi 
ma ma kane-mi atse; kere I tsi som a-fam a-lgm." K'uru g 
wura a-fam a-lal, g pa rgiiah: „Kg na bah-kg." Na der, ha 
lal, ha pa: „Pa, sa re bah-mu." pa: „I kg he ri." Na pa 
sg: „Sa trei fe mu, man kgne." Tsiah g yokane, g sap-ha. 
Na kalane, 'a kg kane K'uru hg: „Pa, gw'an-ka-mu g sap- 
su, g fgl he kara." K'uru g pa: ,,Yira nan, I tsi som gwg 
mg kg bah-kg g-tgfal-e; I tsi som e-bgl ha-rah, aha ma kara- 
ko sol." Tra-reh tra-ran tra tas, o som fe w'uni; ka-reh 
ka-lgm, aka beka tra-sas-e, K'uru g mgt som Pa Ra-tru, g 
pa: „Kg wop-kg, trama kadi, g-ha-tnu g tra bap-mu." 2 ) 



1) Or: Tsiah, ma am-bgl g der traka gw'uni gwe tra re 
bah-kg, g selg be tra kg re am-bgl, ma ah-lgkg-h'gh ha poh. 
Ka tra-reh tra-laT, etc. „ Therefore, when the servant came for 
this man to fetch him, he was not willing to go with the servant, 
when his (appointed) time was up. For many years, etc." 

2) Or: Yah K'uru o mgt som Pa Ra-tru, kgn' g yi w'Qni 
baki; g kgne ka ah-set ha gw T 'uni, g wop-kg, g pa: „I re bah- 
mu;" kere ha nank fe kg koko. Ow'uni o fanta, g gbali he sg 
yokane, g gbali he sake. Ka ka-bat Pa Ra-fi, gwg yi, etc. 
„Thus God first sent Mr. Sickness, he Avas an old person; be 
went into the bouse of the person, took bold of him, and said: 
,,I come to fetch thee;" but they did not see him at all. The 



— 27 — 

But at a certain time a man was born, who was a wicked 
person, and a violent person; he was also a great man, he had 
plenty of money, and many slaves, and plenty of cattle, and 
many servants; who did not care for any one,') and did jusl 
as he pleased, and troubled all his people: he became the author 
of death in the world. 2 ) As God gave him great power, he 
was a warrior, (and) he was a gentleman. The servant went 
and said to God: „Thy child is a bad person." God said to 
the servant: „Go and fetch him; tell him, that his time is up." 
When the servant came for this man to fetch him, he told him 
as God caused him (to say); but he said: „I will not, I do 
not go; I am still a young man." For many years the servant 
came to fetch him from time to time; but he was not willing; 
and at last he said that he would not go there at all. The 
servant returned, and went and told God: „Thy child is no! 
willing to come." When God heard this, he said: „WelI, I am 
glad that thou didst tell me this; but I shall send other people." 
God picked out many persons, and said to them: „Go ye and 
fetch him." They came, they were many, and they said: „Sir, 
we come to fetch thee." He said: „I do not go there." They 
said again: „W r e do not leave thee, let us go." Therefore he 
got up, and beat them. They returned, and went and told God: 
„Sir, thy child beat us, he is not easy to bring away." God 
said: „Sit ye down, I shall send one who will go and fetch him 
quietly; I shall send two servants, who will bring him away softly." 
Two years passed away, he did not send a person; the next year, 
which was the third, God first sent Mr. Sickness, and said: „Go, 
take hold of him, go thou before, thy companion will meet thee." 



man lay down, he could not get up again, nor could he turn 
himself. In the morning Sir. Death, who was etc" 

1) Lit. „who did not know any thing for any person." 

2) Lit. „he came to begin dying in the world." 



— 28 — 

Pa Ra-trii n yi w'uni baki; o kone ka an-set ha ow'uni, o bap-kg 
o fanta ka an-tenta-h'gh; o pa rghdh: „I wop-mu tenon. Ma 'a 
re bah-mu, ma kasi, mina Ka-tru I re bah-mu, I wop-mu tenon." 
Ow'uni o yokane, o kali-kali, g nank fe w'uoi. tsela am-bgl- 
n'on, g pa: „Tsela ah-fam-'a-mi be.-' Am-bol o tsela-na; an-fam 
na der, na re yira ka ah-set be, na yif-kg: „Ko ne-e?" pa: 
„Pa Ra-trfi o wop-mi; kere I nam fe kg." Pa Ra-trii o pa ho: 
,.Mina wop-ko; mo o la kasi fg o kg he, tsian g tru, I wop- 
kg tenon." An-fam be, ana yi ri, na tral ar'i'm ra Pa Ra-tru; 
kere na nank fe kg koko. Ow'rini g fanta, g sgkg gbes, g dira 
he, g gbali he sg yokane, g gbali he sake. Aka-bat Pa Ra-tru 
g pa hg: „Ra-tru ra bak-mu-e." Ka ar'etr ra-bat Pa Ra-fi, gwg 
yi g-lahba, g bek. Ma Pa Ra-fi g der, g kane g-mane-k'gn Pa 
Ra-tru, fg ow'uni g-kasra gwe g gbali he yira so and o-boli, fg 
kgn' g gbali he ba-kg i-neT, fg g gbali he piara and tenoh, fg 
g tra kere-kg. Na be ro-set na tral ar'im-ra-hah; kere na gbali 
he nahk-ha. *) Ma Pa Ra-fi g poh pa vah-e, g yoka ah-hesam 



1) Or: Ka ar'etr ra-bat Pa Ra-fi g bek. Mg g der-e, g pa 
hg : „Pa Ka-fi g bek, ma Pa Ra-tru g wop-mu; kere mina I 
bek, ma piara he and tenon, I tsi kere-mu." Na be ha tral 
atra-fof-tra-nan ; kere na nank fe na. Pa Ra-fi g wiira tete ah- 
hesam na gw'iiui, ha kdne, ha kg trdri K'urumasaba hg: „Sa 
poh ama-pant, ama ma sgh-su." Am-bgT g yif K'urumasaba hg: 
„Tro ma yg-e, mg gw'iini g fi-e?" K'uru g wiira y'etr e-besa 
ro-tgf, g sgh-kg; g wiira y'etr e-16pra, de e-gbata, g pa: „Be 
aha-fera etc." At the early sun Mr. Death arrived. When he 
came, he said: „Mr. Death has come, because Mr. Sickness took 
hold of thee; even I have come, thou wilt not be here to day 
all day, I shall carry thee away." They all heard their words; 
but they did not see them. Presently Mr. Death took out the 
breath (life) of the man, they left, (and) went,*) and said to God: 
„We have done with the work, which thou gavest us (to do)." 
The servant asked God: „How must they do, as the man is 
dead?" God took out tools to dig in the ground with (i. e. 
digging tools), and gave (them) to him; he took out clothing, and 
mats, and said: „If the white (people) etc." 

*) That is Mr. Sickness and Mr. Death went, etc. 



- 29 — 

Mr. Sickness was an old person; he went into the house of 
the person, and met him king down in his hammock; he 
saiil to him: „I take hold of thee to day. As they came to 
fetch thee, (and) thou didst refuse, 1 Sickness come to fetch 
thee, I take hold of thee to day." The man got up, and looked 
all about ; (but) he did not see any person. He called his ser- 
vant, and said: „Call all my people." The servant called them; 
the people came, they sat down all over the room, they asked 
him: „What is the matter?" He said: „Mr. Sickness took hold 
of me; but 1 do not see him." Mr. Sickness said: „1 took 
hold of him; as he always refused and did not go, there- 
fore he is sick, I took hold of him to day." All the people, 
who were there, heard the voice of Mr. Sickness; but they did 
not see him at all. The man lay down, he was awake all night, 
and did not sleep, he could not get up again, and could not 
turn (himself). In the morning Mr. Sickness said: „The sick- 
ness is getting heavy upon thee." At the early sun 1 ) Mr. Death, 
who was a young man, arrived. When Mr. Death came, he told 
his friend Mr. Sickness, that this violent man would not live here 
again long, that he would have no pity on him, that he would 
not be here all day to day, (and) that he would carry him away. 
They all in the house heard their voice; but they could not see 
them. When Mr. Death had said this, he look away the breath 



1) i. e. ,when the sun was not up long get', or , early'. 



— 30 — 

na gw'uni, kg gw'uni o fi. Na kgne, ha kane K'urumasaba fg 
ria pon yg ama-pant-ma-hah, fo ow'uni o poh fi. 

Ka ah-fam-hgh be, de an-wut-n'on, de an-trar-n'on, na trap 
tra kulg, na pa ho: ,,0-kas-ka-su o fi! O-kas-ka-su o fi!" Fg 
an-lo na-tsi na ta tr'a he bok traka w'uni fi. 

Ah-lo na-tsi am-boT o kane K'riiu: „Ow'uni o fi, tro 'a ma 
yg-ko-e?" K'uru g wiira ^'elr e-besa e-lgm, a-sapar, de ka- 
trala, g sgh-yi ka am-bgi; g wura sg tr'ota, de a-gbata; o trori- 
kg sg, tro ma yo-e traka bene gwg fi-e, g pa: „Be aha-fera 'a 
fi-e, tr' 'a bempa k'uma, 'a botr-kg ri, a mank-kg ro-tgf; be 
w'uni bi g fi-e, tr' 'a bes, 'a botr-kg ka tr'ota. de a-gbata, 'a 
mank-ko; be w'uni mori g fi-e, tr' 'a wgh's-kg y'ahkra y'in, de 
r'uma r'in, de a-lapra h'in, 'a mank-kg." Tsiah am-bgi g kara 
ey'etr ka an-fam, g trgri-iia, atra ma yg traka 'ra-fi. Ah-lg na- 
tsi ha trara traka mahk a-fam, e-bona be ka 'ma-ygs-ma-hah; an- 
fam a-fera ka tr'uma; an-Temne ka a-gbata, de tr'ota, de tr'antr. 
Traka gwg fi-e, K'uru g pa: „Kg na bene-kg, na wgh's-kg ey'etr 
e-16pra." Na kgne, ha kg bene-ko. Ma 'a poh kg bene, 'a kg 
kane K'Qru fg. „Sa poh kg bene." K'uru g kg wura a-bitih, de 
k'ehke, de ma-ber, g sgh-ha, g pa: „Tra ha kg bok-hg, kama ha 



— 31 — 

of the man, and the man died. (Then) they went, 1 ) and told God 
that they had done their work, (and) that the man was dead. 

Then all his people, 2 ) and all his children, and his slaves, 
began to cry, they said: „Our father is dead! Our father is 
dead!" For at that time they did not yet know to weep (mourn) 
for a dead person. 

Then the servant said to God: „The man is dead, how 
must they with do him ?" God took out some digging tools, 
a digger, and a hoe, and gave them to the servant; he also 
took out clothing, and a mat; he also iuformed him, how they 
must do in order to bury the one who died, he said: „lf the 
white people die, let them make a coffin, and put him into 
it, and bury 3 ) him in the ground; if a black man dies, let them 
dig, and put him into clolhes, and into a mat, and bury him; if 
a Mori man dies, let them put him on a pair of trowsers, and a 
shirt, and a cap, and bury him." 4 ) Therefore the servant brought 
the things to the people, and showed them, what they must do 
with the one who died. 5 ) At that time they knew to bury 
people, every nation according to their customs ; the white 
people in coffins; the Temnes in a mat, and with clothes, and 
sticks. With regard to the one who died, God said: „Go ye 
and bury him, and put him on the clothing." They left, and 
went and buried him. When they had buried him, they went 
and told God: „\Ve have buried him." God went and took out 
a drum, and a cymbal/) and liquor, and gave it 7 ) (to the 
servant), and said: „Let them go and bewail him, that they 

1) That is Mr. Sickness and Mr. Death went etc. 

2) i. e. ,the people of the man who died.' 

3) Or lit. „hi.le him etc." 

4) In this way they bury the respective persons to this very 
day, the sticks, which are used for the burial of Temne people, 
are laid across the grave over the corpse, leaving some space 
between the corpse and the sticks, and the earth is then put 
upon the sticks; so that the earth does not fall on the corpse. 

5) Lit. „with the death." (Abstractum pro concreto.) 

6) See the word k'ehke in the Vocabulary. 

7) i. e. ,the liquor.' 



— 32 — 

mun ma-ber, kama 'a Isis, k;ima 'a tomo, kama 'a tse so nesa." 
Ma ra-fi ra yi ra-nmis-e, a-fam na won ra-nes: tsiari o som am- 
bol-n'on, o pa rondn: „Kere ey'elr eye, kama o-ninis o poh." 
Tslan d'er 6 d'er w'uni o fi, 'a putr ara-fi, 'a tra fer, 'a tra 
tdmo, 'a Ira mun ma-bcr. Tra won ka a-fam a-bi be, be w'uni 
o fi, 'a tra wol, 'a tra tdmo. 



Ka ka-raraii-ka-tsi K'uru, mo o kaMi a-fam o-ndsi nel, o 

o ' x - q o - - * x 

somra so r'aka ka 'ra-ru, An'emi, ana balane ma a-tenta; tsa o 
nane, fo w'uni lom o gbali he so yokane mo owd yi tapah. 
An'emi ane na yi tra yenkas so w'uni ma-der, be o tru. Be 
w'uni bm o true, 'a botr-ko ka an'emi, 'a larika-ko, tra kal 
yenk ma-der. Am-boi son an'emi traka a-fam be; kere w'uni 
kasra o yi so, owd son fe an'emi ka w'uni 6 w'uni, ma 'a ma 
tru ; kere o mank an'emi ka ak'uma-k'on. Mo K'uru o nank-tsi, 
o lasar an'emi ka ak'uma, ro o mank-ni-e, ow'Qni o tr'a he tsi. 
Tslan mo kdno-konone tru, o som kama ha wura an'emi ka 
ak'uma tnjka yehkas-ko ma-der; kere ma ha kara-ni, 'a botr-ko 
ri, 'a l§hka-ko win-e; ara-beha ra an'emi ra pima, kon' o fumpo 
ro-tof, Q fi. 



Ka ka-rarah ak6 K'uru o son a-fdsa ka Ra-tru de ka Ra-fi, 
kama ha kot d'er 6 d'er ka 'ra-ru be; tani loko lom w'uni lom 
o yokane, yo so mo owe o yo tapah-e. Am-boT ha K'uru, mo 
K'uru o som-ko, o ko kane Ka-tru de Ra-fi tra wop w'uni lom. l ) 
Ah-lo ha-tsi a-fam ha liatral, fo ow'uni owe o tru; tete so'atratral, 



1) Or: Ka ka-rarah ake Ra-trfi de Ra-fi ha ba fdsa ka 
ra-ru; de am-boi ha K'uru, mo K'uru etc. „After this Sickness 
and Death had power in the world; and the servant of God, as 
God etc." 



— 33 — 

may drink liquor, lhat they may be drunk, lhal they may dance, 
(and) that they may be no more afraid." As death is terrible, 
people became alarmed (at it): therefore he sent his servant, 
and said to him: „ Carry these things, that the terror may have 
an end." This is the reason, that everywhere, where a person 
dies, they make the death known, 1 ) they are making music, they 
are dancing, (and) they are drinking liquor. It became fashion 
among all black people, if a person dies, they are playing and 
dancing. 

After this, God, as he looked with pity upon people, sent 
again something into the world, (viz.) the Nemi, which resembled 
a hammock; for he thought, that another person would not arise 
again as the one who was before. This hammock was to make 
a person well again, if he was sick. If some one was sick, they 
put him into the hammock, they swung him, (and) he was getting 
well again. The servant gave the hammock for all people; but 
there was again a violent man, who did not give the hammock 
to any one, when they were sick, but (v»ho) hid the hammock 
in his box. When God saw it, he spoiled the hammock in the 
box, where he hid it, the man did not know it. So when he 
himself got sick, he sent that they might take out the hammock 
from the box to make him well again; but when they brought 
it, and put him into it, and swung him once; the rope of the 
hammock broke, (and) he fell down on the ground, and died. 

After this God gave power to Sickness and Death, that they 
might walk all about 2 ) in the whole world; lest some time 
another person arise, and act again as this one did before. The 
servant of God, as God sent him, went and told Sickness and 
Death to take hold of some 3 ) person. That time people were 
hearing, that this person wassick; presently also they were hearing, 



1) Thus the Temnes do to this very day. As soon as one 
dies, they discharge muskets, making known the death thereby. 

2) Or: „ every where in etc." 

3) Or: „of such and such etc." 

Teiuue - Sagen. 3 



— 34 — 

fo o fi. Kere lomp fe fo w'imi 6 w'uni o yg o las; pak^sife 
a-fam tramat re sas na rap-ko; na-ran na yi ka ka-tra-k'oh ka- 

- or - ' o «/ o 

dig; na-ran na yi ka ka-tra-k'gh ka-merg; na-ran na yi rodi; 
na-ran na yi roraran-k'on, mo w'uni o mo kot. Ane na ma 
kane K'uru tr'ei 6 tr'el atra w'uni mo yo: na ma mar an-fam 
a-fera ka ka-tsim, de ka tr'el tra-las be. Tsian a-fam a-fera na 
lupas he, ha fak he g-krifi, na sek he a-trgl, ha ba he a-seha 
Iraka Isim; kere ha tra tarn ka ka-tsim. 



Ara-bonip III. 

Ma-Kane raa an-Temne ma-kur traka 'ma-TrJima') ma 
W'uni ka-rarah ka ra-Fi. 

1. 

Be w'uni o fi bat, g piara'jo-krifi pali, g kal ra-fgl, g trasam-trasam. 
Ah-lg ha-tsi a-famha yif-kg: „Tro pe-e?" wosa, g pa hg: „Tr'ei 
6 tr'el, g baki gbo!" 'A pa sg: „Ma ma piara ro-krifi pali, ma kal 
so, ko r'aka ra yg-mu-e?" 2 ) wosa sg: 3 ) „Ah-fam a-baki be ha 
der ban-mi, kg g-kas-ka-mi g bal-mi, gpa hg: „Kalane, kg kane-ha: 



1) Or: ma-yi, „ state". 

2) Or: Ko r'aka ra bah'sa-mu-e? „What thing did hurt 
thee?" 

3) Or: Be w'uni o fi bat, g piara pali ro-krifi. An-lg ar'etr 
ra tofio gbo, g trasam. Ah-lg na-tsi ah-fam a-baki ha tra kg 
rgh'gh: ha yif-kg : „Ko tr'eT ma nahk ka ro-krifi-e? Kane-su. 
Ma ma piara ro-krifi ha ma kal sg der, ko tr'el tra ma kal-e?" 
Tete g w6sa-ha: „I kal he tr'el 6 tr'el, 'a som-mi gbo." Ah- 
ldkg ha-tsi g kane-ha atra g nahk, ro g piaV-e; be g nahk d'er 
o-ma-bone, g pa-tsi; etc. etc. „If a person dies in the morning, 
he spends all day in Hades. When the sun gets cool, he sneezes. 
At that time the old people are going to him, and ask him: 
„What thing didst thou see in Hades? Tell us. As thou hast 
been in Hades till thou didst come back again, why didst thou 
return?" Presently he answers them: „I did not return for any 
matter, they just sent me." At that time he tells them what 



— 35 — 

that he was dead. 1 ) But it is not proper for any one to act 
wrong; because eight persons surround him; two are at his 
right hand; two are at his left hand; two are before (him); 
(and) two are behind him, when he is walking. These are tel- 
ling God every thing which man does; they are helping the 
white people in the war, and in every danger. Therefore white 
people do not use country fashion, they do not set up a Krifi, 2 ) 
they do not tie on amulets,') (and) they have no Greegree for 
war; but they are victorious in battle. 

Chapter III. 

Traditions of the Temnes concerning the State of 
Man after Death. 

1. 

If a person dies in the morning, he spends the whole 
day in Hades, he returns in the evening, and sneezes repeatedly. 
Then people ask him: „How is it?"*) He answers, and says: 
„Nothmg but trouble!""') They say again: „As thou wast all 
day in Hades, and didst return again, what thing happened to 
thee?" He answers again: „ All the old people came to fetch 
me, and my father drove me, he said: „Return, and tell them: 



he saw, where he was all day; if he saw a place of joy (glad- 
ness), he states it; etc. etc." 

1) This may also be given as follows: „Thc servant of God, 
when God sends him, goes and tells Sickness and Death to take 
hold of such and such a person. Then people will hear, that 
this person is sick; and soon afterwards again tiny will hear, 
that he is dead." 

2) That is for worshipping it. 

3; Or „charnis", lit. „medicine". 

4) Or: „What newsV" 

5) Lit. „Every trouble, it is hut hard!" 

3* 



— 36 — 

w'uni 6 w'uni tra o n&sa K'lirumasaba, tra o nesa 'ra-ru, tra o 
tse yg tr'eT Ira-las, tra o nesa so w'uni bom; 1 ) tra o nesa w'uni 
mgne l ) de w'uni baki." ') 

„Be w'uni bom o bala, tra o nesa o-wos-k'on; be o nesa 
he g-wos-k'gh-e, o yg he kg g-tgl-e; m'one ma-bana ma tra 
kar-ko ro-krifi, be o pon fi. Be o-bera o botrar he am-mera ka 
o-wos-k'on: be o fi, o tra sdto m'one ma-bana ka ro-krifi. Rimi 
so, be o nantra o-bera, owo yo-ko tr'eT tra-fino, be o-wos-k'on 
o sap-kg kci-tsin; kere o-rani-k'on o nal he ko, o yoka he a- 
pure, ko be o-wos-k'oh o botrar he am-mera ka o-rani-k'on; be 
ow'Uni ka-tsi o fi, o tra kone ka an'anlr, ka m'one ma-bana." 

„Tr«ika pa-la so na som-mi tra kane-nu, kama na botrar am- 
mera traka pa-la, kama na tse lasar pa-la. Be w'uni o lasar 
pa-la, o tra kgne ka an'antr, be o fi. Ma a-fam ha ma lasar 
apa-la; 2 ) tsia som K'uru o tora e-lama de ts'er tra kisar apa-la." 

An-lo ha-tsi o kane-ha so atra o nahk, ro g piar'-e. Be 
o nahk d'er o-ma-bdne, o pa-tsi: be o nahk d'er o-las, o pa- 
tsi. pa: „I nahk d'er o-ma-bgne, ma-pant 6 ma-pant ma 
yi he ri, ma-bone gbo ; 'a piara gbo ha bontras ah'es ha K'uru- 
rnasaba pali gbes." 

„Atse, atra ha pa, 1 der tra trori-nu." Mg g poh pa atse, 
gw'uni g fi sg, g kalane ro-krifi; g gbali he fgf ka ah-rei a- 
mgta, ka ah-rei a-trandg, ka ah-rei aha beka ma-sas, hah ha 
beka ma-rei m'ahle o mgta fgf ro-krifi. 



1) The Singular for the Plural. 

2) Or: „Because people are wasting rice; therefore etc." 



— 37 — 

Every man let him fear') God: Iel him fear the world; lei him 
not commit sin, let him also honour women; let him honour 
the. poor people and the old people." 

„If a woman marries, let her honour her husband; if she 
does not honour her husband, and does not do him good; great 
trouble will await her in Hades, when she is dead. If the wo- 
man does not care for her husband; when she dies, she will 
get great trouble in Hades. A man also, if he marries a woman, 
who treats him well, if her husband beats her without cause; 
but his wife does not abuse him, and docs not take a lover, and 
if her husband does not eare for his wife; if that man dies, he 
will go into the fire (hell), into great misery " 

„Concerning rice also they sent me to tell you, that ye 
should take care of rice, that ye should not spoil 2 ) rice. If 
one spoils rice, he will go into the fire (hell), when he dies. 
As people were wasting the rice; therefore God sent down lo- 
custs and rats to spoil the rice." 3 ) 

At that time he tells them also what he saw, where he 
was all day; if he saw a place of gladness (joy), he states it; 
if he saw a bad place, he slates it. He says: „I saw a place 
of joy, no work whatever is there, nothing but joy; they are 
only engaged in praising the name of God all day (and) all 
night." 4 ) 

„These (words), which they said, I came to tell you." When 
he has said these (things), the man dies again, and returnes 
to the Hades; he is not able to speak on the first day, nor on 
the second day, nor on the third day, till on the fourth day 
then only he can speak again in Hades. 



1) Or also: ,, honour, respect etc." Sense: ,,let every one 
fear God etc." 

2) Or: „ waste." 

3) Lit. „this caused God to bring down locusts etc." 

4) Lit. „they spend all day only they praise the name of 
God all day all night." 



— 38 — 

2. 
Wiini g yi ri ka an-lo iia Fatima Brema. ah'es-h'gh Len- 
sene, owo fi ro-Raka, *) ka 'a kara-ko ro-Kabata, 'a bene-ko ri; 
ko pa won mo o-trar-k'oh o fi ro-Gbohkg. fi gbo, o bap Pa 
Lensene ro-kn'fi. Pa Lensene o pa ronon: „Kalane, I tsi som- 
mu. Be ma ko-e, kane Mori Lamina traka tra-bap, atra ha ma 
tens-e, tra yi rordran. Tra na lafti ah-sar, tra iia bes ri; di-ah 
tra-bap tra-poto tra yi, di-an an-tasale na yi; tra na kali ah- 
sar, aha fair ro-kuhk-e, kama ha fali-hi, kama ha bes ri; di-ah 
tra-bap tra-temne tra yi. Tra ha ko kali ro-bat, na hatr aka- 
bat, ha ko kali ka atr'antr tra-bana, kama ha kali ak'olo, ro 
atr'antr tra gbep'trane; rl-ah ak'uma ka yi; tr' 'a ko wura-ki. 
Be 'a wura-ki, Mori Lamina tra o bene-ki traka Lahai ow'an- 
k'oh. Be o tra bene ak'uma, tra o ten a-trdko a-fera, de a- 
gbera, ktima o bempa ak'uma sehk, kama o soh-ki ka ow'an 
k'oh, be o soto a-mera. 1 ) Kane so Mori Lamina: „„Be ma ba 
traka ram w'iini a-kala, ram-ko o-fino. Mine, me I tse ba ra- 
be! ra w'iini, 3 ) I bap o-fino ro-krifi."" Kane-tsi a-y6la sehk, 
be w'rini o ba a-kala ha w'iini, 4 ) be o ram fe; ka-trak ka-baki 
ka yi ro-krifi traka tr'oh. Tra ha nesa yahfa; w'iini 6 w'iini 
owo tse nesa yahfa, be o fi-e, o tra trama ka m'one ma-bana 
ro-krifi." 



1) Tbe camp of Fatima Brema wbile engaged in a war. 

2) Lit. „when he gets sense." 

3) Lit. „because I had no debt of a person." 

4) Lit. „if one has money of a person," = „if one owes 

money to a person." 



— 39 — 

2. 
There Mas a man in the time of Fatima Brema, 1 ) whose 
name was Lensene, who died in the Camp, and they brought 
him to Kabata, and buried him there; and it is long since his 
slave died at Gbonko. As soon as he was dead, he met Mr. Len- 
sene in Hades. Mr. Lensene said to him: „Return, I will send 
thee. When thou goest, tell the Mori -man Lamina about the 
axes, which they were seeking, Ihey are behind. Let them turn 
up the stone, let them dig there; there are the European axes, 
(and) there is the pray-ketlle; 2 ) let them look at the stone, 
which is near to the fence, that they may move it away, and 
that they may dig there; there the country axes are. Let them 
look at the brook, and go up at the brook, and go and look at 
the large timber trees, that they may look at the hollow, where 
the timber trees join together; there the box is; let them 'ake 
it out. When they take it out, Lamina the Mori-man shall 
keep (preserve) it for Lahai, his son. When he is keeping the 
box, let him look for a white fowl, and for rice flour, that he 
may perform all the ceremonies requisite for the keeping of the 
box, 3 ) that he may give it to his son, when he arrives at the 
years of discretion. Tell also Lamina !he Mori-man: „„lf thou 
hast to pay money to one, pay him well. J, because 1 did not 
owe a debt to a person, fared well in Hades."" Tell it to all 
gentlemen, if one has to pay money to a person, and does not 
pay, there is a heavy palaver for him in the future world. Let 
them be afraid of deceitful dealing; every one who is not afraid 
of deceitful dealing, will he in great misery in the future world." 



1) Fatima Brema was the predecessor of Namina Modu, the 
late Alikali, or Chief at Port-Loko, who was Alikali there, when 
the author resided at that town. 

2) It is a brass -pan used by the Mohammedans for their 
ablutions. 

3) That is by making a sacrifice of the fowl and flour in 
behalf of the person, who buried the box, and who sent the 
slave, and by putting the sacrifice a little while in the box for 
the Krifi. 



— 40 — 

O-trar o der ka Mori Lamina, o kane-ko ama-trel ame be; 
ko mo o pon kane senk, o pa ho: „Me I fi-e, I tsi wur he so 
ro-krifi, I kone ton tabana." Mo o pon pa atse, o fi so, o kal 
he so der. 



Ara-bomp IV. 

M'ump. 

An'iimp I. 

Pa Kamu de Pa Tran-an. 

l ) Pa Kamu do Pa Tran na yi ri tapan. Pa Kiunu o yi 
ro-kant ro-petr raver; Pa Tran o yi ro-petr. Pa Kamu o tra 
tral ar'lm ra Pa Tran loko 6 loko ro-petr, o tral 'a tra bontr- 
ko ari'es loko 6 loko. Mo o nank Pa Tran -a, o pa ho: „W'an, 
mun' mari-tr'el ro-petr!" Pa Tran o pa: „Yao, man kone." 
Na kone ro-petr. Pa Tr«in o pa so: „I tsi rana-mu, ma ma 



1) Or: Pa Kamu o yi ri tapai'i. tral 'a tra tsela Pa 
Tran loko 6 loko. Pa Kamu g tsela Pa Tran, o pa ho: „Pa 
Tran, mun' mari-tr'el!" Pa Tran o pa ho: „Min' mari-tr'el-i?" 
wosa-ko a-lo n'in, ka Pa Tran o pa ho: „Man kone, rensa- 
mi ro-mut." rensa Pa Tran; o kere-ko ra-gbonkto. Na yoka 
ka-lapytr, 'a nap-ko-ki ro-mut. Pa Kamu o fai, o pa ho: „0 
bald, Pa Tran!" Pa Tran o pa ho: „Ma nank-i? baki-mi, 
be I kot-e; muno ma nank gbo yan-ej ma pa ho min' mari- 
tr'el: tsia som ma nank yan."*) Pa Kamu o pal ro-tof, o won' 
do-kant. 

*) Lit. »it sent thou didst see thus (so).« 



— 41 — 

The slave came to Lamina the Mori-man, and told him 
all these things; and when he had told all, he said: „\Vhen I 
die again, I shall not come out again from Hades, I shall now 
go for ever." When he had said these (words), he died again, 
and did not come hack again. 

Chapter IV. 
Fables. 
Fable I. 

The Iguana and the Dog. 2 ) 

There was once an Iguana and a Dog. The Iguana was 
in the hush close to the town; the Dog was in the town. The 
Iguana was always hearing the voire of the Dog in the town, 
he heard that they were always calling him by his name. When 
he saw the Dog, he said: „Friend, thou art fortunate in town!" 
The Dog said: „Yes, 3 ) let us go." They went into the town. 
The Dog said again: „I will carry' thee on my hack, as thou 



1) Or: There was once an Iguana. He heard that they 
were always calling the Dog. The Iguana called the Dog, and 
said: „Mr. Dog, thou art lucky!" The Dog said: „I lucky V" 
He answered to him once in the affirmative, *) and the Dog said: 
„Let us. go, get on my back." He got on the back of the Dog, 
he carried him into a kitchen. They took a burning stick, and 
knocked him with it on the back. The Iguana got a burn, and 
said: „It is hard, Mr. Dog!" The Dog said: „Doest thou see? 
It is hard for me, when I go about; as for thee, it only ap- 
peared so to thee**) (when) thou saidst that I was lucky: this 
is the reason that thou hast made such experience." The Iguana 
jumped down to the ground, and went into the bush. 

*) Or: »he was willing for him for once,« i. e. cither granting that 
he was lucky; or to take the Iguana once with him to town. 
**) Lit »thou, thou only seest thus, thou saidst that I etc.« 

2) Lit. „Mr. Iguana and Mr. Dog." 

3) Or: „Well, let etc." 



— 42 — 

t.se trara ro-petr-e." rana-kg, g kere-kg ra-gbghktg; ha bap 1 ) 
'a botr o-sem ka k'aro. Pa Iran o yoka g-sem ro-k'aro. Ow'a- 
het pa ho: „0 gbo, ya! Pa Tran o joka o-sem!" O-borko 
o yoka ka-lapatr, o sap Pa Kamu ro-mut ka Pa Tran. Pa Tran 
o gbuke (o ba Pa Kamu), ha ko yira rokan. 'A botr a-nak a- 
tan, 'a re son Pa Tran-ah; kere an-nak, ma ha yi a-lan, ha be' 
he tra ha ha-rah. Ma 'a poh som o-sem 'a wura tra-banl, 'a 
re faka Pa Tran-ah. Pa Tran-ah o pa ka Pa Kamu : „W"an, 
man di o-sem." Pa Kamu o pa: „0-sem-'o-mi taho; I ba he 
e-sek tra som tra-bant. Ma Pa Tran o poh som tra-bant, o 
pa: „Mah kone rolenken." Na ko bek rolehken, ha bap') 'a 
tra di. Pa Tran o ko mun am'antr; 'a yoka k'etr, 'a gbanta Pa 
Kamu; mo o rensa Pa Tran, ak'e'r ka be' 2 ) he Pa Tran. Pa 
Tran o A\ur, ha ko yira rokah. Pa Kamu o pa ho : „I vema 
kone." Kere Pa Tran o pa: „Tse ko, w'an; min' mari-tr'el. 
ma' tra soto tenon a-boya." 'A ba tra-bant, 'a re faka-ha-tsi. 
Pa Tran o pa: „W'an, der, sa re som o-sem." Pa Kamu o 
pa: „Di gbo; mina, I ba he e-sek." Pa Tran, mo o poh sgm 
atra-bant, o pa: „Mah kone rolehken." Na ko bap 3 ) rolenken 
'a tra ros. Pa Tran o kg loh am'antr, 'a yoka k'etr, 'a sap- 
ko; kere Pa Kamu kono mo solo ka-sap gbo. 'A bal-bal Pa 
Tran-ah, o gbuke. Pa Kamu o pa so: „I yema kone." Pa 
Tran o pa: „Tse ko, ah-lambe-'a-su ha yi rodi, man kone." 'A 
kone rolenken, 'a bap 1 ) 'a tra di. Pa Kamu o yi ro-mut ka 
Pa Tran-ah. Pa Tran o ko loh am'antr, 'a wop Pa Tran-ah, 



1) For: bap-na 'a etc., „raet them they etc." 

2) Or: bap, „meet." 

3) For: bap-na r. etc., „met them etc." 



— 43 — 

doest not know how to shift for thyself in town." He carried 
him on his back, and carried him into a kitchen; they met them 
putting meat into a bowl. The Dog took the moat in the bowl. 
The child said: „0 dear, mother! The Dog took the meat!" 
The damsel took a burning stick, and knocked the Iguana on 
the back of the Dog. The Dog ran (he had the Iguana), and 
they went and sat without. They put a little cooked rice 
(into a bowl), and came and gave (it) to the Dog; but the rice, 
as it was a little, was not sufficient for both of them. When 
they had eaten the meat, they took out the bones, and went 
and threw (them) for the Dog. The Dog said to the Iguana: 
„Friend, let us eat the meat." The Iguana said: „This is no 
meat for me, 1 ) I have no teeth to eat bones." When Ihe Dog 
had eaten the bones, he said: „Let us go yonder." They went 
and came to the other yard, they met them eating. The Dog 
went and lapped the soup; they took a whip, they beat the 
Iguana; as he was on the back of the Dog, the whip did not 
reach the Dog. The Dog went out, they went and sat with- 
out. The Iguana said: „I want to go away." But the Dog 
said: „Do not go, friend; I am lucky, thou wilt get a present 
to day." They had bones, they came and threw them for them. 
The Dog said: „Friend, come, we will eat the meat." The 
Iguana said: „Do but eat; as for me, I have no teeth." The 
Dog, when he had eaten the bones, said: „Let us go yonder 
to the other yard." They went and met them taking out boiled 
rice from the pot 2 ) in the other yard. The dog went and upset 
the soup; they took a whip, and flogged him; but the Iguana only 
was getting the whipping. They drove the Dog away, he ran. 
The Iguana said again: „I want to go away." The Dog said: „Do 
not go, our present is before, let us go." They went into the other 
yard, they met them eating. The Iguana was on the back of the Dog. 
The Dog went and upset the soup; they took hold of the Dog, 



1) Lit. „My meat not at all etc.," or „Meat of me not 
at all." 

2) Or „ serving up boiled rice etc." 



— 44 — 

'a sap, 1 ) 'a wiira kg rokan ka sap-an. Pa Tran o gbuke, o 
kone ro-kant, ro 'a yefa, ha Pa Kamu-e. Pa Tran o pa: „M;m 
kone." Pa Kamu o pa: „I kg ho so, o baki ro-petr." Pa 
Kamu o gbiike, o ko mahkne. Pa Tran o pa: „I kone." Pa 
Kamu o pa: „Kone, o baki ro-petr, I der he so." Pa Tran 
o pa: „Der, sa kone, ma ma pa min' mari-tr'el ro-petr-e." 
Pa Kamu o pa: „I ko he so." 

Tsiah Pa Kamu o minta he so w'uni, o der he ro-petr; o 
yi gbo ro-kant. Pa Tran o nahk gbo so Pa Kamu, o gbip-ko, 
o kara 1 ) ro-petr, 'a re poh-ko som. 'A yif Pa Tran-a fo: „Ko 
he ma ma kira Pa Kamu-e?" Kon' o pa: „I trori-ko k.vmar- 
tr'ei; mo o pa min' mari-tr'ei." Tsiah Pa Kamu o minta he so 
w'uni; o minta he so Pa Tran-ah; o minta he so ro-petr. 



An'unip II. 

Pa Nes-ah, ha Pa Trahk-ah, ha Pa Taba. 

7 ) Ye taho Pa Nes o yi ri tapah-i? O-bal o 
trol tra-na-tr'oh, ka Pa Nes o kg kali atra-na; 



1) Object: kg, „him" dropped, as is someting the case. 



2) Or: O-bal g trol tra-na-tr'gh, ka Pa Nes g kg kali-ha, 
kg g re kane Pa Taba fg: ,,0-na ka g-bal g-baua, man kg dif- 
kg." Pa Taba g pa bg : „Tro sa ma yg-e?" Kore Pa Nes g 
pa fo: „Mina trara sgt; be pa poh bia, man kone." Ma a-fam 
ha poh dfra, g kg tami Pa Taba, g pa bg: „Mah kgue." Kg g 
yOkane, ha kone. Ma ha kg bek ka g-na-e, Pa Nes g sut g-na, g pa: 



— 45 — 

they flogged (him) and pulled him oul while flogging. The Dog 
ran, and went into the bush, 1 ) from whence they came, he 
and the Iguana. The Dog said: „Let us go." The Iguana said: 
„I do not go again, it is hard in town." The Iguana ran, and 
went and hid himself. The Dog said: „I go." The Iguana said: 
„Go, it is hard in town, I do not come again." The Dog said: 
„Come, let us go, because thou saidst I was lucky in town." 
The Iguana said: „I do not go again." 

Therefore the Iguana does not dare again to come near a 
person, he does not come to town; he is only in the bush. 
As to the Dog, as soon as he but sees again the Iguana, he 
catches him, and brings (him) to town, (and) they come and 
devour him entirely. They asked the Dog: „Why art thou 
troubling the Iguana?" He said: „I show him (what) luckiness 
(is); because he said I was lucky." Therefore the Iguana does 
not venture again to come near a person; he does not venlure 
again to come near a Dog; he does not venture to town again. 

Fable II. 

The 2 ) Spider, and the Ant-Eater, and Mr. Taba. 3 ) 

Is it not so that there was once a Spider? A (certain) king 
took care of his cows, and the Spider went to look at the cows; 



1^ Or: „wood. u 

2) Lit. „Mr. Spider, and Mr. Anteater etc." 

3) The name of a fabulous person. 

4) Or: A (certain king took care of his cows, and the Spider 
went to look at them, and he came and told Mr. Taba: „As to 
the large cow of the king, let us go and kill it." Mr. Taba 
said: ,,How shall we manage (it)?" But the Spider said: „I 
know an artifice; when it has got dark, let us go." After people 
had gone asleep, he went and awoke Mr. Taba, and said: „Let 
us go." And he rose up, (and) they went away. When they 
came to the cow,*) the Spider stroked**) the cow, and said: 

*) Lit. »When they went and arrived at the cow etc ,« or »when 
they go arrive at the cow etc.« 
**) Or rather: »rubbed.« 



— 46 — 

kg mo nank o-na o-bana; o der kane Pa T£ba fo: ,,0-na ka 
g-bai, owo yi o-bana, man kone tlif-ko tra sgm." Pa Taba o 
pa: , : I minta he, tro sa ma yg-e?" Pa Nes o pa: „Mina, I 
trara sot." Pa Taba o pa: „Ko a-sgt nan ane-e?" Pa Nes o 
pa: „Man kone ro-lal, ro atra-na na ma wgnt-e." Na kone 
ro-lal, na kg bap Pa Trahk-a, o tra bes ro-tof. Pa Nes o pa 
rongn: „Ma mam bes ang-a? Be atra-na tra g-ba! ha wgh ka 
am-bi-e, ma tra sgtg a-pa de ka-trak." Ma Pa Trahk-a g tral 
atse, g nesa, g kone rolehken, g kara e-tgf tra botr ka am-bi, 
aha g bempa. Pa Trahk g pa sg: „I yema kg fotane." Pa 
Nes g pa: „Mah kone ro rgmu, ro man dira-e." Kere g bolra 
Pa Trahk-a yahfa, kama g trara, ro g mg dlra. Na kg sg. Ma 
ha kg be' ri-e, Pa Nes g pa hg : „I tsi kalane." Pa Trahk-a 
g pa hg: „Kgne, ma-re ma ba-mi." Pa Nes g kone, g kg bah 
g-na g-bana ka g-bai, g kara-kg, g re wgha-kg ro-bi; gd'er, ro 
Pa Trahk-a g fanta, g fair ri, g kalane ro-petr. O-bai g pa 
ka ah-fet-h'gh: „Kgne nan, kali atra-na ro-lal, pa yema bia." 
Na kg bah-ha. Na kg bap g-na g yi ro-bi, g wiira gbo 'ra- 
bomp. Ah-fel ha gbuke, ha kg kane g-bal fg: ,,0-na g wgh 
ro-bi, g yema fi." Mg Q-bal g tral atse, g tsela ah-fam be, g 



„Na site! Na site!" Kg g-na g site, ha wQn' etc. 



— 47 — 

and when he saw a large cow, he came and told Mr. Taba: 
„As to the cow of the king, which is large, come let us kill 
it to eat (it)." Mr. Taba said: „I do not dare, how shall we 
manage (it)?" The Spider said: „As for me, 1 know an arti- 
fice." Mr. Taba said: „What artifice is that?" 1 ) The Spider 
said: „Let us go to the grass-field, where the cows are grazing." 
They went to the grass-field, they went and met the Ant-Eater, 
he was making a hole in the ground. The Spider said to him: 
„Why art thou digging here? 2 ) If the cows of the king get into 
the hole, thou wilt get a matter and a palaver." When the 
Ant-Eater heard this, he was afraid, and went to some distance, 
and brought earth to put (it) into the hole, which he had made. 
The Ant-Eater said again: „I want to go and rest myself." The 
Spider said: „Let us go yonder to thy place, where thou doest 
sleep." But he acted deceitfully against the Ant-Eater, that he 
might know, where he was sleeping. They went again. When they 
reached there, 3 ) the Spider said: „I shall return." The Ant-Eater 
said: „Go, I am sleepy." The Spider left, and went and fetch- 
ed the large cow of the king, he brought it, and came and 
put it in'.o the hole; the place, where the Ant-Eater lay down, 
was near to it, (and) he returned to town. The king said to his 
children: 4 ) „Go ye, and look after the cows on the grass-field, it 
wants to get dark." They went to fetch them. They went and 
met a cow in the hole, she only put forth the head. The children 
ran, and went and told the king: „A cow got into a hole, and is 
about to die." When the king heard this, he called all the people, and 



„Cow, break the wind! Cow break the wind!" And the cow 
broke the wind, (and) they went into etc." 

1) Lit. „What artifice that thisV" 

2) Seems rather to be an elliptical expression, for: „What 
art — — here for? (Take care what thou art about.) If the 
cows etc." 

3) Lit. „When they go reach there," or „when they went 
and reached there etc." 

4) Or „boys". 



— 48 — 

pa rghah: „Mah kdne wura nan g-na ro-bi." Na be ha ko ri, 
na bap o-na o fi ton. An-fain na bes, na wura o-na ka am-bi. 
O-bal o pa ho: „Alr'ei atse tra kdla-mi, o-na o-bana g der fi 
and; ko tr'el-e?" Pa Nes o pa ho: „Tr' 'a tsela Pa Trahk-a, 
kdng yi ro-lal." Na pa ho: „Ma sa tse trara ro o yi-e. M 
Pa Nes o pa so: „Tr' 'a tsela-kg, o fair and." O-bal o t.sela- 
ko; Pa Trahk-a o wdsa. O-baT o pa so: „Der ba lemp-a!" 
Pa Trahk o bek. Q-bal o pa so: „W'an-ka-mi, der ba, kali 
tr'el-a!" Mo o bek ri, o-bal o pa rohdh: „Kane yo ama-pant 
ame, kama o-na-ka-mi o der fi re-e?" Pti Trahk o pa ho: 
„Mina }0 ama-pant ame; kere min' taho kara o-na and; min' 
tdhg dif-kg." Pa Nes g kg fatr Pa Taba, g kane-kg sol: „Pa 
Trahk-a, sa tra sgm-kg tengh." O-bal de Pa Trahk 'a tra 
tdhka. O-bal g pa: „Pa Nes, Pa Trahk-a kgn' lahg yi ro-lal-i?" 
Pa Traiik g pa: „Mina yi ro-lal; kere min' taho dif g-sem." 
Pa Nes g pa hg: „Ma Ira tdhka-i? Me 1 la kane-mu-e: tse 
bes ro-lal, ri-ah e-sem ha ma wont; be g-na g der gbo, o won 
ro-bi-e, g fi gbo-e, miino dif-kg." O-bal g yif Pa Trahk-a: 
„Mung bes e-bi y'ahle eye-i?" wdsa. O-bal g pa sg: „W'an, 
ma difa-mi g-na!" Pa Nes g kdne sgl ka g-santki, g kg kane- 
kg: „Wop-kg nan, kgng dif g-na." Pa Trahk-a g tra tdhka de 
g-bal-ah. O-santki g wop Pa Trahk-a, g pa: „Ma tonkas g-bal 
ka-tsih;" g pa: „Mg g dif o-na ka g-bai-ah, tr'a dif-kg nan." 



— 41) 

said to them: „Let us go, and pull out the cow from the hole." 
They all went there, they found that the cow was dead already. 
The people digged, and pulled out the cow from the hole. The 
king said: „This thing puzzles me, the large cow came and died 
here; how is this?" The Spider said: „Letlhem call the Ant-Eater, 
he is on the grass-field." They said: „\\'hen we do not know where 
he is." 1 ) The Spider said again: „Let them call him, he is close 
by." The king called him; the Ant-Eater answered. The king said 
again: „Come here quickly!" The Ant-Eater arrived. The king 
said again: „My friend, come here, look at something!" When 
he came there, the king said to him: „\Vho did this work, that 
my cow came to die here?" The Ant-Eater said: „I did this 
work; but it was not I who brought the cow here; it was not 
I who killed it." The Spider went and came near to Mr. Taba, 
and told him softly: „As for the Ant-Eater, we shall eat him 
to day." The king and the Ant-Eater wore debating the matter. 
The king said: „Mr. Spider, was it not the Ant-Eater who was 
on the grass-field?" The Ant-Eater said: „I was on the grass- 
field; but it was not I who killed the beast." The Spider said: 
„Art thou expostulating? When I used to tell thee: do not 
dig at the grass-field, there beasts are grazing; if but a cow 
comes, and goes into the hole, and dies, thou doest kill it." 
The king asked the Ant-Eater: „Didst thou dig these four holes?" 
He answered in the affirmative. The king said again: „Eriend, 
thou hast killed me the cow!" The Spider went softly to the 
minister of the king, he went and told him: 2 ) „Take ye hold 
of him, he killed the cow." The Ant-Eater was expostulating 
with the king. The minister of the king took hold of the Ant- 
Eater, and said: „Thou doest expostulate in vain with the king;" 
and said: „As he killed the cow of the king, let them kill him " 3 ) 

1) That is: „When wc is (how can we call him?)" 

It is rather an elliptical expression. 

2) Lit. „he go tell him: (as the Lib. Africans say) = „he 
went to tell etc." 

3) Lit. „let them kill him ye." 

Temne-Fabeln. 4 



— 50 — 

Pa Nes o pa: „Ava, tr' 'a dif-kg;" mo o vema di 4 ) Pa Trarik-a. 
Na dif Pa Trank. O-bai o pa: „Man kere-kg, kama sa kg 
bene-kg ro-petr." Kere Pa Nes o pa: „Tr' 'a tse kg bene ro- 
petr, bene-ko ka ro-lal ka ka-petr-k'gh." Ma Pa Nes o pa 
yan-e, na bene Pa Trank ka ani-bi, ro g-na o fi. Ma na pori 
bene-kg, g-bal g pa: „Man kgne nan ro-petr, kama 1 kg yer 
g-na." Na kg bek ro-petr, g-bal g ver g-na sehk. O-bal g 
pa sg: „Pa Nes kgng soni 1 trara gwg difa-mi g-na-e, tr' 'a 
sgn-kg a-lank." Na sgn-kg An-fam na sakane, 'a kgne fanta. 
Ma an-fam na pon dira-e, Pa Nes g wur, g tsela Pa Taba; na 
ko ban Pa Trank ro-lal, na kere-ko ka an-set-n*on roraran: na 

- ? - - o 7 

kg pon kg tsen senk, o ver Pa Taba. Ka Pa Taba o pa ho: 
Pa Nes, ma foT he tr'el!" Pa Nes g pa: „Me I pa ma tr'a he 
sgt-i?" Ka na sgm-kg ha aft'of na fi. Pa Taba g pa hg : 
„Yawe, an-lg nan ka-sgm g-sem!" Pa Nes g pa: „Man kar 
tani tratrak, sa tra som anina o-sem." Ma pa bia, ka a-fam na 
poii dira, g kg tsela Pa Taba; ha kgne, ha kg bap tra-na tra 
g-bal, ha kotar-ha. Pa Nes g wura an-trgl-h'gh, g kg sut g-na 
g-bana, g pa: „Na, .site! Na, site!" O-na g site, ha wgn' do- 
k'or-k'gh, ha Pa Taba. Pa Nes g trgri Pa Taba ka ka-but, g 
pa hg: „Tse gbak ang." wura a-tis, g sgh Pa Taba; kere 



1) Or: sgm, „devour". 



— 51 

The Spider said: „WV11, let them kill him;" because he wanted 
to eat the Ant-Eater. They killed the Ant-Eater. The king said: 
„Let us carry him away, that we may go and bury him in the 
town." But the Spider said: „Let them not bury him in town, 
bury him on the grass-field in his town." When the Spider said 
this, they buried the Anl-Eater in the hole, where the cow died. 
When they had buried him, the king said: „Let us go to town, 
that I may go and share the cow." They went and arrived 
at the town, (and) the king shared out the whole of the cow. 
The king said again: „As to the Spider, he caused me to know 
who killed me the cow, let them give him a leg." They gave 
(it) to him. The people dispersed, they went and lay down. 
When the people had gone asleep, the Spider went out, and 
called Mr. Taba; they went and fetched the Ant-Eater at the 
grass-field, they carried him behind his house; they went and 
cut him up entirely, he shared (the meat) with Mr. Taba. 
And Mr. Taba said: „Spider, thou doest not joke!" 1 ) The 
Spider said: „When i said that thou didst not know cunning?" 
And they ate of it (meat) till the month was done. Mr. Taba 
said: „Oh dear, that time (of) eating meat (is over)!" 2 ) The 
Spider said: „Let us wait till to night, we shall eal meat to 
morrow." When it got dark, and people had gone asleep, he 
went and called Mr. Taba; they left, and went and met the 
cows of the king, they had lied them on. 3 ) The Spider took 
out his medicine, and went and stroked 1 ) a large cow, and said: 
„Cow, break the wind! Cow, break the wind!" The cow broke 
the wind, and they went into her belly, he and Mr. Taba. The 
Spider showed Mr. Taba the heart, and said: „l)o not cut 
here." He took out a knife, and gave (it) to Mr. Taba; but 



1) Lit. „Mr. Spider, thou makest no joke of a thing," or 
„thou doest etc.!" 

2> This is an elliptical expression. 

3) That is the kings people had tied them on. 

4) Or „rubbed". 

4* 



— 52 — 

Pa Taba o pa: „I tr'a he Isi; ') gbak, kama I kali." pa: 
„Yao, kara ka-mote" Pa Nes o tra gbak, o son Pa Taba; kono 
botr ka ka-mote. Na lasar ka-mote. wura so an-trol, o sut 
g-na, o pa: ,,Na site! Na, site!" O-na o site, na wur, na kg 
di g-sem ka-tsi ma-rei m'anle. A-lgkg lorn tratrak Pa Nes o 
ko tsela Pa Taba, o pa: „Mah kgne." Na kg bap atra-na tra 
g-bal. Pa Nes g der, g wura an-trgl, g sut g-na, g pa: „Na, 
site! Na, site'-" O-na o site, na wgn-ko ro-k'or. Pa Nes g 
wura a-tis, g sgii Pa Taba, g kane-kg tg hg: „Kg ka tsen-an 
ro-kapatr." Kgn' g kgne ka tsen ka an-fi-ah. Pa Taba g ko 
bap m'aro ma-lal ka ka-but, g kg gbak ara-bena ra ka-but; g- 
na g fumpg, g fi. Pa Taba g tr'a he tsi; kere Pa Nes g Irara- 
tsi. Pa Nes g pa hg: „Pa Taba, g-na g fi!" Pa Taba g pa: 
„Tro sa ma yo-e, rng g-na g fi-e?" Pa Nes g pa: „Ma mahk- 
ne: mina, I tsi mankne ka am'im." Pa Taba g pa: „Mina, me 
1 tse trara sgt-e, I tsi yira and." Pa Nes g mankne ka am'im; 
Pa Taba g wgii ka am-putu. Ma pa pon sgk bat, an-fet na 
g-bal ha pa: „0 gbo, Pa, g-na g fi!" Na kg tsen g-na. Ma 
ha ma tsen g-na, 'a trapa ka-bap ka tra-sak. Pa Nes g pa ro- 
k'or ka g-na: „Tr' 'g ma trap-mi-e! Tr' 'g ma trap-mi-e!" Mg 
g pa yan-e, ha nesa; 'a kg kaue g-bal, fg r'aka ra fgf ka g-sem 
rokor. O-bal g bek, o pa: „Trap na ba sg-a!" Kere Pa Nes 



1 Or: I tr'a he yi; „I do not know thus," = „I cannot 
do this." 



— 53 — 

Mr. Taba said: „1 do not know it; cut, that I may look at." 
He said: ,,¥68,*) bring the basket." The Spider was cutting, 
and gave (the meat) to Mr. Taba; he put (it) in the basket. 
They filled the basket. He pulled out again the medicine, and 
stroked 2 ) the cow, and said: „Cow, break the wind! Cow, break 
the wind!" The cow broke the wind, they came out, and went 
and ate of that meat for four days. Another time at night the 
Spider went and called Mr. Taba, and said: „Let us go" 
They went and met the cows of the king. The Spider came, 
he took out the medicine, he stroke 2 ) the cow, and said: „Cow, 
break the wind! Cow, break the wind!" The cow broke the 
wind, they went into her belly. The Spider took out a knife, 
and gave (il) to Mr. Taba. and told him now: „Go and cut at 
the breas'." He he went and cut at one of the loins. 3 ) Mr. Taba 
went and met with much fat at the heart; he went and cut 
the heart-strings; the cow fell down, and died. Mr. Taba did 
not know it; but the Spider knew it. The Spider said: „Mr. Taba, 
the cow is dead!" Mr. Taba said: ,.How must we do, as the 
cow is dead?" The Spider said: „Lel us hide ourselves: as 
for me, I shall hide myself at the liver." Mr. Taba said: „As 
for me, because 1 do not know cunning, 1 shall sit down here." 
The Spider hid himself at the liver; Mr. Taba went into the 
rectum. When it had fully dawned, the children of the king, 
said: „Oh dear, Sir, the cow is dead!" They went and cut 
up the cow. When they were cutting up the cow, they chopped 
with an axe at the ribs. The Spider said within the cow : 
„Mind, that thou doest not chop me! Mind, that thou doest not 
chop me!" 4 ) When he spoke thus, they were afraid; they went 
and told the king, that something talked within the beast. The 
king came, and said: „Chop ye now here again!" But the Spider 

1) Or: „Well, bring etc.'' 

2) Or „rubbed". 

3) Lit. „Go in (by) cutting at the breast." He he went in 
(by) cutting at the loin. =¦ „Go be cutting at the breast." He 
he was cutting etc. 

4) Lit. „Not that thou chop me! Not that me!" 



— 54 — 

o kal mankoe rolehken ka ro-k'or. Ma na poh trap-e, 'a kg 
nah'-kg de ka-mgte-k'gh; 'a vvura-kg de ka-mgte, na kg sek- 
ko. Ma 'a pori tsen o-sem sehk, na ko saj> Pa Nes-an. 
bal o pa: „Pa Nes-ah, konon mo poria-mi o-sem, tr' 'a sap-ko." 
Ma 'a gbanta-kg win-e, o kulo, o pa: „Sya Taba, sya yi! Sya 
Taba, sya yil" O-baT o pa: „Tr' 'a trel ba ka-sap-ko-a, tr' 'a 
\if-ko ba." Na yif Pa Nes: „Nya kane der tra dif o-sem-e?" 
pa: „Sya Taba, sya dif p-sem." Na pa: „Kona Taba?" 
pa: ,.I tr'a he ro o ko-e." Kg g bal g pa: „Ma \emsa Taba; 
mun' son, mung dif'-kg " Kere Pa Taba g yi ka am-pulu, g 
mankne. Na f wura am-putu, 'a sgn an-fet tra kg yak ro-bat. 
Na kgne ro-bat, na kg gbal am-putu, na wgn am-putu ro-m'antr. 
Ma na wgn-iii ro-m'antr yan-e, Pa Taba g wur, g kg tralpe 
romgri, g pa hg: „Ko na yg-mi yan-e?" An-fet na pa: „0 
gbo, Pa-ka-mi, sa tr'a he tsi!" Wahet o-lom g kg trori-tsi ka 
g-bal; g-bai g der, g kali Pa Taba, g pa rgngn: „Ko iie-e?" 
Pa Taba g pa: „ An-fet iia yg-mi gbo ka-tsin, ha sakar-mi gbo 
e-nin ya o-na!" O-bal g kg bah r'uma, de y'ahkra, g kara, 
g sgh Pa Taba, g pa: „Bukg, w'an-ka mi!" Mg g poh bukg, 
ha wur ro-petr. Pa Nes g pa sg: „Pa Taba sya yi." Kere 
kgn' g pensa. Na pa hg: „Tsela g-rani ka Pa Taba, kama sa 



— 55 — 

hid himself again in another place of the belly. When they 
had done with chopping, they went and saw him and his 
basket; they pulled him out and the basket, and went and 
tied him. When they had cut up the whole of the beast, they 
went and flogged the Spider. The king said: „The Spider, 
he was destroying me the beast, let them flog him." When 
they struck him once, he cried, and said: „1 and Taba, we 
were together! 1 and Taba, we were together!" 1 ) The king 
said; „Let them leave off now from flogging him, let them ask 
him now." They asked the Spicier: „Thou and who 2 ) came 
to kill the beast?" He said: „I and Taba. we killed the beast." 
They said: „W T here is Taba?" He said: „I d'ont know where 
he went to." And the king said: „Thou doest tell a lie about 
Taba; thou alone, thou didst kill it." But Mr. Spider was in 
the rectum, he hid himself. They took out the rectum, and 
gave (it) to the children !o go and wash (it) at the brook. 
They went to the brook, and went and burst the rectum, and 
shook out the bag into the water. While they thus shook it 
out into the water, Mr. Taba came out, and went and jumped 
to the other side, and said: „Why treat ye me in this way?" 
The children said: „Oh dear, Sir, 3 ) we did not know it!" Some 
child went and informed the king of it. The king came, he 
looked at Mr. Taba, and said to him: „What is the matter?" 
Mr. Taba said: „The children treated me but in a vile manner, 
they just bespattered me with cow-dung!" The king went and 
fetched a shirt, and a pair of trowsers, and brought (them), 
and gave (them) to Mr. Taba, and said: „\Vash thyself, my 
friend!" When he had washed himself, they went into the 
town. 4 ) The Spider said again: „It was Mr. Taba and I." But 
he denied (it). They said: „Call the wife of Mr. Taba, that we 



li Lit. „We Taba, we were! We T. we were!" But the 
Plur. form is in such cases used also for the Singular; and the 
copula implied in the pronoun. 

2) Lit. „Ye who came etc.?" 

3) Lit, „my Sir." 

4) That is: „they went out (from the water) into the town." 



— 50 — 

yif-ko." Ma ria t.seia-ko, na yif-ko. pa ho: „Pa Taba o dira 
he and, ar'etr ra lal (lis mo o wur ro-set, o kdne." O-bal o 
pa ho: „Pa Nes kdnoh ; rag o pa fo kon' de Pa Taba na dif 
o-na-e, o yemsa-kg gbo." Pa Taba o pa: „ Kali -mi and; o 
yemsa-mi; be sya yi nah-e, na bap-mi ka ro-k'or ka o-na." 



Na pa to: „Tr' 'a sap Pa Nes-ah, kdno dif o-na." Na 
kere-ko ka a-batr, 'a gbak ka-ronko ka am-balr, 'a sapa-ko ka- 
ronko. Tslah o wur tr'atrak tra-lal. O-baT o pa: „Tr' 'a tser- 
ko." Ma na tser-ko, o kdne, ko trii; o yokane, ba tr'atrak 
tra-gbati; o gbuke, o kdne ro-kant. 



AiTi'imp III. 

Ow'ahet de am-Bamp-an. 

W'ahet o yi ri tap ah, o gbatr ma-teli ka a-tan' data, ko o 
sapas a-bamp. Amba, mo o pon ko som, o kal so ldmpar ama- 
teli, ko o kal sapas a-bamp; ko o gbuke o kdlii am-bamp, ko 
o kere-ko ro-bahka; kere o-kara-k'oh o bal-ko ro-gbantrani tra 
ko bal e-bamp. Ko ow'ahet o pa ho: „Ya, tofsa-mi 1 ) am-bamp." 
O-kara-k'oh o pa ho: „Iy6o." Amba, mo ow'ahet o kdne, o-kara- 
k'oh o dif am-bamp, ko o tusi-ko, o ko tols-ko, o som-ko larap. 
Mo ow'ahet o der-e, ko o yif o-kara-k'oh tra am-bamp, o-kara-k'oh 
n pa ho: „I poh ko som." Ko ow'ahet o bok, o pa ho: „Bom, 
son-mi ain-bamp-'a-mi! Bom, son mi am-bamp-'a-mi, owd I dif ro- 
lan'data, tanla, tan' data!" 2 ) Amba, o-bom o soh-ko tra-mahk, kg 



1) Or: „broil." 

2) The preposition ro- before the first tan' data belongs here 
also to the following tanta and tan' data. 



— 57 — 

may inquire of her." When (hey had called her, they inquired 
of her. She said: „Mr. Taba did not sleep here; the sun was 
si ill high yesterday when he went out of the house, and went 
away." The king said: „It is the Spider; when he said that he 
and Mr. Taba killed the cow, he only told a lie against him." 
Mr. Taba said: „Look me here; he told a lie against me; if it 
had been I, 1 ). ye would have met me in the belly of the cow." 
They then said: „Let them flog the Spider, he killed the 
cow." They led him to a young palm-tree, and cut a branch 
from the young palm-tree, they flogged him with the palm-leaf. 2 ) 
This is the reason that he got many legs. The king said: „Le1 
him go." 3 ) When they left him. he departed, and went and 
was sick; he recovered, 4 ) he had many legs; he ran. and went 
away into the bush. 

Fable III. 

The Child and the Bird. 

There was once a child who set a trap under a root, and 
he eaug!:l a bird. Well, when he had eaten il, he returned 
and set the trap again, and he again caught a bird; and he 
ran and loosed the bird; and carried it into the hut; but his 
mother drove him to the outskirts of the farm to go and drive 
birds away. And the child said: „Mother, roast me the bird." 
And his mother said: „Yes." Well, when the child was gone, 
his mother killed the bird, and plucked it, and went and roasted 
it, and ate it entirely. When the child came, and asked his 
mother for the bird, his mother said: „I have eaten it." And 
the child cried, and said: „Mother, give me my bird! Mother, 
give me my bird, which 1 killed under the root, at the water- 
fall, under the root!" Well, the mother gave him maize, and 



1) Lit. „if it were we," but the Plural is here used for the 
Singular. 

2) Or: „palm-branch." 

3) Lit. „Let them leave him." 

4) Or: „he got up." 



— 58 — 

o ren-tsi ro-lakat rokgm; ke me e-mgrka na poft tsi sgm, gw'ahet 
o pa ka e-morka: „Mgrka, soft-mi tra-maftk-tra-mi! Mgrka, soft- 
mi tra-maftk-tra-mi, atra g-bom o soft-mi! O-bom o som am- 
bamp-'a-mi, gwo I dif ro-tan' data, tanta, tan' data." Amba, e-morka 
fta sala-ko e-bgl; kg o kere-yi ro-bat ka ka-tanta traka kut. Ka ma 
ka-tanta ka ma wotr e-bol eyaft, o pa ho: „ Tanta, soft-mi e-bol- 
'e-mi ! Tanta, soft -mi e-bol-'e-mi, eye e-morka fta soft -mi! 
E-morka fta som tra-maftk-tra-mi, atra o-bom o soft-mi; o-bom 
o sgm am-bamp-'a-mi, owg 1 dif ro-tan' data, tanta, tan' data." 
Ka-tanta ka soft-ko a-fak; ka ma a-bar o mg yoka-ko, o pa ho: 
„Bar, soft-mi aft-fak-'a-mi! Bar, soft-mi aft-fak-'a-mi, owo Tanta 
o 1 ) soft-mi! Tanta o ') wotr e-bol-'e-mi, eye e-morka fta sala- 
mi; e-morka fta som tra-maftk-tra-mi, atra o-bom o soft-mi; o- 
bom o som am-bamp-'a-mi, owo I dif ro-tan' data, tanta, tan' 
data." Amba am-bar o faka-ko k'lipo k'in. Amba, ma aft-fef 
fta ma kere-ki, o pa ho: „Fef, soft-mi ak'upo-ka-mi! Fef, soft- 
mi ak'upo-ka-mi, aka am-bar o soft-mi! Am-bar o som aft-fak- 
'a-mi, owo tanta o soft-mi; tanta o wotr e-bol-'e-mi, eye e- 
mgrka fta sala-mi; e-morka fta som tra-maftk-tra-mi, atra o-bom 
soft-mi; o-bom o som am-bamp-'a-mi, owo 1 dif ro-tan' data, 
tanta, tan' data." Amba, aft-fef fta kofta-ko ma-lel ma-lai. 
Amba, ma tra-woto fta poft di ama-lel-e, o pa ho : „W6to, sgft- 
mi ama-lel-ma-mi, ama aft-fef fta kofta-mi! Aft-fef fta kere 
ak'upo-ka-mi, aka am-bar g sgft-mi; am-bar g sgm aft-fak-'a-mi, 
owo tanta o soft-mi; tanta o wotr e-bol-'e-mi, eye e-mdrka fta sala- 
mi; e-mgrka fta sgm tra-maftk-tra-mi, atra g-bom g sgft-mi; g-bom 
g sgm am-bamp-'a-mi, gvvg 1 dif ro-tan' data, tanta, tan' data." 



1) The Cataract is here personified, hence the pronoun g, „he". 



— 59 - 

he put it on the, lop of the stump of a tree; and when the 
termites had eaten it, the child said to the termites: „Ter- 
mites, give me my maize! Termites, give me my maize, which 
the mother gave me! The mother ale my bird, which I killed 
under the root, at the water-fall, under the root." Well, the 
termites made') him earthen pots; he carried them to the 
brook at the water -fall to scoop water with. And when the 
cataract was breaking those earthen pots, he said: „Cataract, 
give me my earthen pots! Cataract, give me my earthen pots, 
which the termites gave me! The termites ate my maize, which 
the mother gave me; the mother ate my bird, which I killed 
under the root, at the water-fall, under the root." The cataract 
gave him a skate (fish); and when a hawk was taking it away, 
he said: „Hawk, give me my skate! Hawk, give me my skate, 
which the cataract gave me ! The cataract broke my earthen 
pots, which the termites made 1 ) for me; the termites ate my 
maize, which the mother gave me; the mother ate my bird, 
which I killed under the root, at the water-fall, under the root." 
Well, the hawk dropped a feather for him. Well, when the 
wind was earring it away, he said: „Wind, give me my feather! 
Wind, give me my feather, which ihe hawk gave me! The 
hawk ate my skate, which the cataract gave me; the cataract 
broke my earthen pots, which the termites made for me; the 
termites ate my maize, which the mother gave me; the mother 
ate my bird, which I killed under the root, at the water-fall, 
under the root. - ' Well, the wind made many coun!ry- beans 
to fall down for him. Well, when baboons had eaten the 
beans, he said: „ Baboon, give me my country -beans, which 
the wind made to fall down for me! The wind carried away 
my feather, which the hawk gave me; the hawk ate my skate, 
which the cataract gave me; the cataract broke my earthen 
pots, which the termites made for me; the termites ate my 
maize, which the mother gave me; the mother ate my bird, 
which I killed under the root, at the water-fall, under the root." 



1) Lit. ,.formed". 



— 60 — 

Amba, ra-woto o pa ho: „I ba ho r'aka traka soil." Ko o sek 
ara-woto; ko mo poii ko sek, o kere-ko ro-petr. 

Ah'i'i m p IV. 

Pa Rank re Pa W'ir-an. 

Pa Rank de Pa Wir ha yi ri tapah ; ka na gbakane ka- 
wont ro-lal. Pa Rank, kdno pa ho: ,.Mina tas-mu traka ka- 
wont." Pa W'ir-an o pa ho: „De, ma yema; niina las-mu." 
Pa Rank o pa ho: „Tro ma tas-mi-e?" Pa W'ir-an o pa ho: 
„Ma soko wont, sa piara wont." Pa Rank o pa ho: „Man ko 
ka Pa Sohala, kama sa tonka." Amba, na kone ka Pa Sonala. 
Pa Soiiala o pa ho: „Pa Rank, ko he-e, na der-e?" Pa Rank 
pa ho: „Pa Wir o farki-mi; Pa Wir o lol, mina bana; o pa 
fo o tas-mi ka-wont." Pa Sohala o pa ho: „I ta rok he am- 
pa; mail kone nan ro-lal." Pa Wir o pa ho: „Be sa tra ko 
ro-lal-e, man trap nan ano-kant ka-wont." Pa Rank o pa ho: 
„I selo." Pa Sohala o pa ho: „Awa!" Pa Rank o yi ka ka- 
tra ka-dfo ro-r'oh; Pa Wir o yi ka ka-tra ka-mero; Pa Sohala 
trama ro-r'oh. Pa Rank o kere ka-tra rokom, o sim ey'intr, 

tra som e-bopar-ya-tsi, ko pa ho: „Pa Wir o kolone ka-tsih, 

1 tas-ko." Pa Wir o pa ho: „Mah ko gbo, be pa yi ho ma tas-mi." 
Pa Sohala o pa ho: „Mah ko nan gbo, nyah J me kali-ah." Ka 
ar'etr ra ka-tro Pa Sohala o pa ho: „Ma wnr nan ro-lal." Ma ha 
bek ro-lal-e, Pa Wir-anopaho: „ Ma wont nan, man gbakane nan." 



— 61 — 

Well the baboon said: „I have nothing to give." And he tied the 
baboon, and when he had tied him, he carried him into the town. 

Fable IV. 

The Elephant and the Goat. 

There was once an Elephant and a Goat; and they con- 
tended with each other in grazing on the grass-field. As to the 
Elephant, he said: „I surpass thee in grazing." The Goat said: 
„No, thou doest tell a lie; I surpass thee." The Elephant said: 
„How doest thou surpass me?" The Goat said: ,Xet us graze 
all night and all day."*) The Elephant said: „Let us go to 
the Lion, that we may debate the ease together." Well, they 
went to the Lion. The Lion said: „Mr. Elephant, what is the 
matter that ye come?" The Elephant said: „The Goat despises 
me; the Goat is little, I am big; he said that he surpasses me 
in grazing." The Lion said. ,.1 do not yet decide the matter; 
let us go to the grass-field." The Goat said: „If we are going 
to the grass-field, let us begin grazing here in the bush." The 
Elephant said: „I am willing." The Lion said: „Very well!" 
The Elephant was to the right hand of the road; the Goal was 
to the left hand; the Lion stood in the road. The Elephant 
put up the trunk, 2 ) he broke the trees, and was eating the 
leaves of them, and said: „The Goat boasts in vain, I surpass 
him." The Goat said: „Let us but go, whether it be so that 
thou surpass me." The Lion said: „Let us just go, it is you 
I am looking at." About 4 o* clock *) the Lion said: „Let us 
go out to the grass-field." When they arrived at the grass- 
field, the Goat said: „Let us graze, let us vie with each other."*) 



1) Lit. „Let us graze all night, we graze all day", or rather: 
„let us spend all night in grazing, we spend all day in grazing." 

2) Lit. „the hand," but here „the proboscis of the Elephant." 
o) Lit. „At the sun of beating rice (fur supper)," that is 

about two hours before sun-set, when they begin to beat rice for 
supper. 

4) That is: „let us contend with each other in grazing." 



— 62 — 

Ar'6tr ra won, ka Pa W'ir o pa hg: „Mina, I ta nam'ra he." 
Pa Rank q pa ho: „Sa ma fanta he o-tan-i?" Pa W'ir o pa: 
„Ma wgnt nan ha ka-ren' datron ka bek." Ka-ren' datron ka 
bek-e, ka Pa Sonala o pa ho: „Man kone ton ro-gbalan." 

An-gbalan 'a bana, e-buma e yi he ri traka wont. Na wur 
ka an-gbalan ralrdn gben. An- Sonala o pa ho: „Ma folane 
nan, man dira nan o-tan." Na fan! a ro-gbalan. Pa Rank o ko 
fanta ka an-gbalan, ro na yi a-fino; Pa W'ir o ko fanta, ro an- 
gbalan na gbope, di-ari ' ) o botr ara-bomp-r'on. Pa Rank o 
dira; Pa Sonala o dira; Pa W'ir o dira; kere o tra trom. Pa 
Sonala o tame, o tral Pa W'ir o tra trom marat-marat. Pa 
Sonala o pa ho, „Pa W'ir, ko man som-e?" Pa W'ir o pa 
ho: „I ta nam'ra he." Pa Sonala o pa ho: „Pa Rank, ma tral 
ma Pa W'ir o mo som-i?" Pa Rank o pa: „Ko o mo som-e?" 
Pa Sonala o pa ho: „I tr'a he ar'a ran o mo som-e, yif-ko." 
Pa Rank-a o pa ho: „Ma sa fanta ka an-gbalah ratron, e-buma 
e yi fe ri. Pa W'ir, ko ma ma som-e?" Pa W'ir o pa ho 
„I tsi som an-gbalan, i nam fe e-buma." Pa Rank o pa ho 
„Be ma pon an-gbalan-e, ko ma ma som-e?" pa ho: „1 t.si 
som r'a ra-boti-som." Pa Rank o yokane, o ko rodi, o ko 
fanta. Pa Sonala o pa ho: „Ma fatrane ncin, mina yi tra rok 
an-tonka, I ta rok he ni." Na kone ka Pa Rank, na ko fatr- 
ko; halisa Pa W'ir o tra trom gbo marat-marat. Pa Rank o 
pa ho: „Man kone nan ka wont-ah!" Pa Sonala o pa ho: 
„Awa, ma rap nan an-gbalan ka wont-an." Ma na pon wont be, 



1) Or: di-a. 



— 63 — 

The sun set. and the Goat said: „As for me, 1 have not vet 
enough." The Elephant said: „Shall me not lie down a little?" 
The Goat said: „Let us graze till midnight comes." Midnight 
came, and the Lion said: ,.Let us now go on the rock." 

The rock was large, there was no green for grazing. They 
went out to the very middle of the rock. The Lion said: „Let 
us now rest, (and) let us sleep a little." They lay down (in 
the rock. The Elephant went and lay down on the rock where 
it was good;') the Goat went and lay down, where the rock was 
rugged, there he put down his head. The Elephant slept; the 
Lion slept; the Goat slept; but he was chewing the cud. The 
Lion awoke, he heard that the Goat was chewing the cud mak- 
ing marat-marat. 2 ) The Lion said: „Mr. Goat, what art thou 
eating?" The Goat said: „I am not yet satisfied." The Lion 
said: „Mr. Elephant, doest thou hear how the Goat is eating?" 
The Elephant said: „What is he eating?" The Lion said: „I 
d'ont know that thing which he is eating, ask him." The Ele- 
phant said: „\Vhen we lay down on the middle of the rock, 
there was no green there. Mr. Goat, what art thou eating?" 
The Goat said: „I am eating the rock, I do not see green." 
The Elephant said: „When thou hast done with the rock, what 
wilt thou eat?" He said: „I shall eat something sweet to 
eat." 3 ) The Elephant rose up, and went forwards, and lay 
down. The Lion said: „Let us come close together, I have 
to settle the matter, I did not yet settle it." They went to 
the Elephant, they went near him; the Goat was but still 
chewing the cud making marat-marat. The Elephant said: 
„Let us go grazing!" The Lion said: „Well, let us go round 
the rock while 4 ) grazing." When they had grazed all about, 



1) That is „even" or „ smooth, not rugged". 

2 1 This is an onomatopoetic adverb. See it in the Vocab- 
ulary. 

3) Or: „something delicious to eat." 

4) Or: „in grazing." 



— 04 — 

ha wur ro-gbalah, na trama. Pa W'ir o sanne, o panthe, 
tra trom. Pa Rank o pa ho: „A, w'an owe mo nam'ra he!" 
Tsia ba Pa Sonala o pa ho: „An-loko na ka-rok an-tonka nia 
bek-ah. Pa W'ir-ah, tse wura-ko ro-petr ka a-fam; mo o tse 
nam'ra, kama a-fam na mar-ko tra son-ko y'etr e-di." Pa Son- 
ala o botr Pa Rank ro-kant. Pa Rank o nesa Pa W'ir-an, o 
gbuke-ko. Pa Sonala o pa ho: „Ko ne-e?" Pa Rank o pa ho: 
„I minta ho Pa W'ir-an ka-wont-k'on; o tr'a he ar'«i ran o mo 
som-e; o tra dira, o tra wont." Pa Sonala o pa ka Pa Rank: 
„Ma ebali he yi rokin re a-fam, ma tra lasar e-set ya a-fam, 

"0O0 ~*/- ~ o T oooo~ *J o 7 

de e-kuhk; a-fam na minta he mu; yi ro-kant; ma tana he Pa 
W'ir ka-wont. Ma Pa W'ir o pon som an-gbalan, o tra som- 
mn." Tsian Pa Rank o gbiike, o kone ro-kant, o wur he so 
ro-petr. 

ko nal Pa Sip-an, o pa ronon: „Sa gbakane ka-wont, 
mi'na de Pa W'ir-an, ko o bun mi som; o som e-buma; sa ko 
fanta ra-gbalan, ko o som an-gbalah. Ro an-gbalan ha gbope- 
gbope, di-ah Pa W'ir o fanta, o pa ho: „Be I poh som aii- 
gbalah, 1 tsi som r'a ra-bdti som." Tsiah Pa Rank o gbiike, o 
ko nal Pa Sip-ah, o pa roh'on: „Gbipa-mi Pa W'ir-ah; tahkaii, 
ro ma nah'-ko be, gbip-ko. 1 tr'a he ro sa ma gbahane, I 
minta he ko so; lansa ro sa ma gbaiiane, o tra poh mi som. 
I boya-mu Pa W'ir-ah, gbipa-mi-ko." Tsiah o-Sip o mo gbip 
ton Ow ir; Pa Rank kono boya-ko tapah ka Pa Sip-a. Pa Rank 



— 05 - 

they went out on the rock, and stood. The Goat bent himself 
down, and raised himself again, and was ruminating. The Ele- 
phant said: „Ah, this boy is not satisfied!" Therefore the Lion 
said: „The time of settling the matter arrives. As regards the 
Goat, do not take him on! from town with the people; because 
he does not get satisfied, that people may assist him to give 
him food." The Lion located the Elephant in the wood (bush)- 
The Elephant was afraid of the Goat, and ran away from him. 
The Lion said: „\Vhat is the matter?" The Elephant said: „I 
do not dare to vie with the Goat (as regards) his grazing; he 
does not know that which he is eating; he is sleeping, and is 
grazing." ') The Lion said to the Elephant: „Thou canst not 
be together with people, thou art spoiling people's houses, and 
fences; people do not dare to cope with thee; be thou in the 
wood; thou art not able to keep up with the Goat in grazing. 
As the Goat has eaten (of) the rock, he will devour thee." 
Therefore the Elephant fled, and went into the wood, and did 
not come out into town again. 

He went and challenged the Leopard, and said to him: 
„We were contending with each other in grazing, I and the 
Goat, and he almost devoured me; he ale green; we went and 
lay down on a rock, and he ate (of) the rock. Where the 
rock was very rough, there the Goat lay down, and said: „lf I 
have eaten the rock, I shall eat something delicious to eat." 
Therefore the Elephant fled, and went and challenged the Leo- 
pard, and said to him: „Catch me the Goat; at all times, where- 
ever thou doest see him, catch him. I do not know where we 
may meet each other, I do not dare to cope with him again; per- 
haps where we are meeting each other, he will entirely devour 
me. I make thee a present of the Goat, 2 ) catch him for me." 
Therefore the Leopard is now catching the Goat; the Elephant he 
made formerly a present of him to the Leopard. The Elephant 



1) Tkat is „hc is grazing even while he sleeps". 

2) That is „I deliver him up to thee" or: „into thy hand." 

Temne - Fabeln. 5 



- 66 - 

o nane ho ro na gbanne gbo, Pa W'ir o tra poh ko som; tsian 
o nesa, tsian o son-ko ka Pa Sip-an. 



A hump V. 

Pa Nes-an, na Pa Bo-ah, na Pa Trak-an, na Pa K'Alma, na 
Pa Pahkal, na Pa W'or-an. 

Pa Nes-an o kane Pa Bo: „Mah kere-mi ka-sdkane!" Fa 
Bo o pa ho: „I selo." Kere Pa Nes o bdtra-ko a-tdnto. Ma 
Pa Nes o ko bap a-sar ro-kanl , na loko k'ek-e, o pa ho: „0 
gbo, i-sar na loko k'ek-e!" Mo o pa yah, o fiimpo, piara ri 
pali, o tame to ra-fol. Tsian o botra an-nah a-^anfa traka som- 
na: tsian o ko tsela Pa Bo: „Man kone sokane." Na kdne, na 
Pa Bo. Ma na bek ka an-sar-e, Pa Nes-a o kane Pa Bo: „Ko 
kar-mi ka aii-sar: I ko bom." Pa Bo o ko yira ka k'antr, o 
kgli ah-sar, aha ba k'ek-e; kere Pa Nes o ko he tra bom, 
ko trama gbo; kama Pa Bo o mot-ko bek ka ah-sar. 
Mo o der-e, o pa ho: „Pa Bo, man kdne." Kere Pa Bo 
o pa ho: „Kali, ma ah-sar ha loko k'ek-e!" Ma Pa Bo o 
pa yan-e, o fumpo ri; ka Pa Nes o yoka-ko, o kere-ko 
roh'dh, o ko poh ko di, kon' de ah-wut-h'oh. ') Mo poh 
di Pa Bo-ah-e, o tsela Pa Trak, o pa ho: „Mah kere-mi 
ka ka-sdkane." Na kdne, ha Pa Trak-ah. Ma ha fatr ka ah- 
sar-e, Pa Nes o kane Pa Trak: „Tas rodi, mina, 1 tsi sdte." 



1) That is the Spider and his children consumed him. 



— 67 — 

thought that where they would but meet, the Goat will entirely 
devour him; therefore he was afraid; therefore he gave him to 
the Leopard. l ) 

Fable V. 

The Spider, and the Bush-goat, and the Deer, and the Antelope, 
and the Bushcow, and the Fillentamba. 

The Spider said to the Bushgoat: „Come now with me for 
a hunting!" 2 ) The Bushgoat said: „1 will." But the Spider 
put a snare for him. When the Spider went and met a stone 
in the bush, 3 ) which grew a beard, 4 ) he said: „Oh strange, a 
stone grew a beard!" When he had said thus, 5 ) he fell down, 
and was there all day, and awoke in the evening. This is the 
reason that he dealt deceitfully towards his companions in order 
to devour them; therefore he went and called the Bushgoat, 
(saying): „Let us go hunt." They went, he and the Bushgoat. 
When they came near to the stone, the Spider told the Bush- 
goat: „Go and wait me at the stone; I go to ease myself." 
The Bushgoat went and sat upon a log of timber, and looked 
at the stone, which had a beard; but the Spider did not go in 
order to ease himself, he only went and stood; that the Bush- 
goat might reach the stone before him. When he came, he 
said: „Mr. Bushgoat, let us go." But the Bushgoat said: „Look 
how the stone grew a beard!" When the Bushgoat had said thus, 
he fell down there, and the Spider took him up, and carried 
him to his place, and went and ate him entirely, he and his 
children. When he had eaten the Bushgoat, he called the Deer, 
and said: „Come with me to the hunting." They went, he and 
the Deer. When they came near to the stone, the Spider said 
to the Deer: „Go on before, as for me 1 shall make water." 



1) Or: „he gave him into the hand of the Leopard.'' 

2) Or: „Come now, carry me to a hunting!" 

3) Or: „wood." 

4) That is „a spider's web". 

5 ) The Aorist for the Pluperfect, which is sometimes the case. 

5* 



— 68 — 

Pa Trak g tas, o kg trama o tra kali an-sar. Pa Nes o der, 
pa ho: „Mah kone" Kere Pa Trak g pa ho: „Pa Nes, kali, 
ma ah-sar na lgkg k'ek-e!" Ma Pa Trak o pa yah-e, o fumpo 
ri; ka Pa Nes o \6ka-ko , o kere-kg rgh'gh, o kg di-kg, kgn' 
de an-wut-n'on. 

Loko lgm Pa Nes o tsela Pa K'alma, o pa rgh'gh: „Mah 
kone sokane." Na kone, ha Pa K'alma. Ma ha bek ka ah- 
sar-e, Pa Nes o kane Pa K'alma: „Trama kadi, I ko gbak a- 
rcisa." Pa K'alma o ko trama, o tra kali ah-sar. Pa Nes o bek, 
pa roh'oh: „Mah kone." Pa K'alma o pa ho. „Kgli, ma ah- 
sar ha loko k'ek-e!" Mo o pa yah-e, o fumpo ti. Pa Nes, 
mo o kali o lana he yoka Pa Kalma, mo o yi o-bana, o kdne 

--o-o V O - - J - 

ka gbuke o ko (sela ah-wut-h'oh. Na der, ha re bah-ko, ha 
ko poh ko di. Pa Nes o kal tsela Pa Pahkal, o: 1 ) „Mah kone 
sokane." Pa W'or o pa ho: „Alr'ei atse tra keta!" Ah-hah 
ha pa: „Ko he-e?" Pa W'or o pa ho: „Ka-sokane ake, ma 'a 
tse kal so!" Pa Pahkal o pa ho: „Mah kone, Pa Nes!" Na 
kone. Pa W'or o trah-ha; kere ha nam fe ko. Ma ha bek ka 
ah-sar-e, Pa Nes o pa ka Pa Pahkal: „Ko kar-mi ka ak'antr 
ka-bana, 1 ko bom." Kere Pa W'or o mahkne ro-kant, o tra kali- 
ha. Pa Pahkal o ko trama, o kali ah-sar trahh. Ma Pa Nes 
o bek-e, o: 1 ) „Mah kone, Pa Pahkal! Ko ma ma k§li-e?" 2 j 
Pa Pahkal o pa ho: „Kali, ma ah-sar ha ba k'ek-a!" Mo o pa 
yah, o fumpo ri. Pa Nes o kone lemp, o kg tsela ah-wut-h'oh; 



1) This is for: g pa, or for: g pa bo: „he said:" 

2) Or: Ko mail kali-e? 



— 69 — 

The Deer passed on, and went and stood,') and was looking 
at the stone. The Spider came, and said: „Let us go." Bui 
the Deer said: „Mr. Spider, see, how the stone grew a beard! - ' 
When the Deer had spoken thus, he fell down there; and the 
Spider took him up, and carried him to his place, and ate him, 
he and his children. 

Another time the Spider called the Antelope, and said to 
him: „Let us go hunt." They went, he and the Antelope. 
When they came near to the stone, the Spider said to the 
Antelope: „Go on before. I go to cut a rassa branch." 2 ) The 
Antelope went and stood, and was looking at the stone. The 
Spider arrived, and said to him: „Let us go." The Antelope 
said: „Look, how the stone grew a beard!" When he had spoken 
thus, he fell down there. The Spider, as he saw that he was 
not able to take the Antelope, because he was large, went away 
running, and went and called his children. They came, they 
fetched him. and went and ate him altogether. The Spider 
called again the Bushcow, he (said): „Let us go hunt." The 
Fillentamba said: „This matter is puzzling!" His companions 
said. „W 7 hy?" 3 ) The Fillentamba said: „This hunting, because 4 ) 
they do not return again!" The Bushcow said: „Let us go, 
Mr. Spider!" They departed. The Fillentamba followed them; 
but they did not see him. When they came near to the stone, 
the Spider said to the Bushcow: „Go and wait me at the large 
log of timber, I go to ease myself." But the Fillentamba hid 
himself in the bush, and was looking at them. The Bushcow 
went and stood, 1 ) and looked steadily at the stone. When the 
Spider arrived, he (said): „Let us go, Mr. Bushcow! What ail 
thou looking at?" The Bushcow said: „Look. hov, the stone 
has a beard!" When he had said thus, he fell down (here. 
The Spider departed quickly, and went and called his children; 



1) Or: „ stopped". 

2) See the word rasa in the Vocabulary. 

3) Or „W T hat is the matter?" 

4) Or „ — when they do not etc.!" 



— 70 — 

ka ma 'a re bail Pa Paiikal, ha kg sgm-kg. Ma Pa W'gr-a o 
nahk yah-e, o kone, o kg kane ah-hah be. 

Lgkg lom so Pa Nes o ko kane Pa W'or-a, o pa ho: 
„Mah kone sgkane." Pa W'gr o pa ho. ,,I selg, man kdne.-' 
Na kone. Ma ha bek ka ah-sar-e, Pa Nes o pa ho: „Pa W'gr, 
ko kar-mi ka ak'antr ka-bana, I ko bom." Ma Pa W'or o bek 

- oo 7 -- -- 

ri, o tas, o ko trama rodi ka an-sar. Ma Pa Nes o bek, g pa 
ka Pa \V'gr-a: „Ri-a I pa nan hg ma kar-mi-i?" Pa W'gr g pa 
ho: „Ar'6n' tahg-i?" Pa Nes g pa sg: „Der ba." Pa W'gr 
o der; na trama ka ah-sar. Pa Nes g pa hg: „Ma ma trank- 
a?" Pa W'gr g pa hg: „Tro me pa-e?" Pa Nes g pa sg: 
„Mung, ma nahk fe-i?" Pa W'gr g pa: „I nahk fe r'jtka/' 
Pa Nes g pa sg: „Muno, ma tsemp he." Pa W'gr g pa: „1 
t-sempi." Pa Nes g pa sg: „A, Pa W'gr!" Kgn' g pa hg: „A, 
Pa Nes!" Pa Nes g pa sg: „Kali ba tgh-a!" Pa W'gr g pa 
sg: „Kali ba tgh-a!" Pa xNes-a g pa sg: „Pa yeneu." Tsiah 
Pa W'gr g pa: „Tro me pa-e?" Pa Nes g pa to: „R'aka ra 
lgkg r'aka." Pa W'gr g pa: „R'aka ra loko r'aka." Pa Nes g 
pa hg: „Pa ba tgh-a!" Pa W'gr g pa: ,,Pa ba tgh-a!" Pa Nes 
g pa hg: „A, Pa W'gr, miing, ma keta! Pa yehen tgkgh!" Pa 
W'gr g pa: „Tro me pa-e?" Pa Nes g pa hg: „Pa ba: Sar-lg-." 1 ) 
Pa W'gr g pa yi. Pa Nes g pa sg: „Pa ba: A-sar ha lgkg k'ek." 
Pa W'gr g pa yi; ka ha ha-rah ha fumpg ri. Pa yi aka-bat, ina 
ha ha-rah ha fumpg ri, ka ar'etr ra yema wgh, ma ha kal yo- 
kane. Ma ha yokane, Pa Nes g pa hg: „Pa W'gr, ko he ba-e?" 



1) These two words, as will be seen, form an imperfect 
beginning of the phrase: „ A-sar ha lgkg k'ek-e!" 



— 71 — 

and they came to fetch the Bushcow, and wen! and devoured 
him. When the Fillentamba saw this, he departed, and went 
and told (it) to all his companions. 

Another time again the Spider went and told the Fillen- 
tamba saying: „Let us go hunt." The Fillentamba said: „1 am 
willing, let us go." They went. When they came near lo the 
stone, the Spider said: „Mr. Fillentamba, go and wait me at 
the large log of timber, I go to ease myself." When the Fillen- 
lamba reached there, he went on, and went and stood beyond 
the stone. When the Spider arrived, he s;iid to the Fillen- 
tamba: „Is it there I told thee to wait me?" The Fillentamba 
said: „ls not this the road?" 1 ) The Spider said again: „Come 
here " The Fillentamba came; they stood at the sione. The 
Spider said: „Whv art thou silent?" The Fillentamba said: 
„What shall I say?" The Spider said again: „Thou, doest thou 
not see?" The Fillentamba said: ,.I see nothing." The Spider 
said again: „As for thee, thou hast no sense." The Fillentamba 
said: „I have sense." The Spider said again: „Ah, Mr. Fillen- 
tamba!" He said: „Ah, Mr. Spider!" The Spider said again: 
„Look here now!" The Fillentamba said again: „Look lure 
now!" The Spider said again: „Speak now." Therefore the 
Fillentamba said: „What shall I say?" The Spider said now: 
..Something grew something?" The Fillentamba said: „Something 
grew something." The Spider said: „Speak then now!" The 
Filleniamba said: „Speak then now!" The Spider said: „Ah, 
Mr. Fillentamba, as for thee, thou art puzzling! Speak then 
now!" The Fillentamba said: ,.What shall I say?" The Spider 
said: „Say now: Sar-lo-." The Fillentamba said it. 2 ) The 
Spider said again: „Say now: A stone grew a beard." The 
Fillentamba said it; and they both fell down there. It was in 
the morning, when they both fell down there, and the sun was 
about to set, when they rose up again. When they had got 
up, the Spicier said: „Mr. Fillentamba, what is the matter now?" 



1) Or: „Is not here the road?" Lit. „The road not (it)?" 

2) Lit. „thus" or „so". 



— 72 — 

Pa W'or o pa: „Tr'eI tra yi he ri." Pa Nes o pa ho : „Tro 
me pa-e?" Tsian Pa W'or o pa: „Tro me pa-e?" Pa Nes o 
pa: „Pa: An-sar ria loko k'ek." Ma Pa Nes g pa yan-e, o 
fumpo ri; kere Pa W'or o pa he yi so; o kone, kg kane an- 
fam-n'gn be, o pa ho: „W'uni 6 w'uni, be Pa Nes o ba-mu 
ka ka-sokane, Q pon mu som. Be ma ko ro-kant-e, ma nank 
a-sar, na ba k'ek-e, mam pa fe ho: 1 ) ,A-sar na loko k'ek!' Be 
ma pa yi, ma tra fumpo ri, Pa Nes o tra pon mu som." 



An' limp VI. 

Pa Nes-a, na Pa Bo-an, na Pa Trank-an, na Pa Sip-an. 

Pa Nes kono mo ko ka lasar tr'el-an; tsian 'a ma yo-ko o- 
baki, 'a bun ko dif; tsian o tra kane Pa Bo loko 6 loko: ,,'A 
bun mi dif!" Pa Bo o yif-ko: „Ko yi ka-bun fi-e?" Pa Nes 
o pa: „Ma tr'a he kci-bun fi-i?" A-loko lorn Pa Nes o kone, 
o ko keia ka o-baT; 'a wop-kg ri, 'a pa: „Tr' 'a dif-ko." O-bai 
o pa: „Tr' 'a tser-ko, tse kg dif." Pa Nes o kalane, o ko bap 
Pa Bo rgn'on. Pa Bo o pa ho: „0 gbo, Pa Nes! Ko yo-mu 
yan-e?" Pa Nes o pa: „I bun fi." Pa Bo o pa so: „Ko yi 
ba ka-bun fi-e?" Ron' o pa ho: „Kar-mi, I tsi trdri-mu anina 
k§-bun fi." Na dira. Ka ka-bat Pa Nes o pa ka Pa Bo: „Man 
kone, 1 ko trdri-mu ka-bun fi; man kone ba ro-lal ka an-wul- 
a." Pa Bo o tr'a he tsi, fo Pa Nes o kere 2 ) an-wut-n'on 



1) For: ma ma pa fe ho etc. 

2) The Aorist for the Pluperfect. 



— Id — 

The Fillentamba said: „ There is nothing the matter." The Spider 
said: „How shall I say?" Therefore the Fillentamba said : ,,How 
shall I say?" The Spider said: ,.Sa\: The stone grew a beard." 
When the Spider had spoken thus, he fell down there; but the 
Fillentamba did not say so again; he left, and went and told 
(the matter) (o all his people, he said: „Any one (of you), if 
the Spider has thee at the hunting, he will entirely devour 
thee. If thou doest go into the bush, and thou seest a stone, 
which has a beard, thou must not say; ,A stone grew a beard!' 
If thou doest say so, thou wilt fall down there, and the Spider 
will devour thee altogether." 

Fable VI. 

The Spider, and the Busbgoat, and the Ant-Eater, and the Leopard. 

The Spider he was going about spoiling a thing; therefore 
the\ dealt hardly with him, and almost killed him; therefore he 
was always telling the Busbgoat: „They almost killed me!" The 
Bushgoat asked him: „What does almost dying mean?" 1 ) The 
Spider said: „Doest thou not know (what) almost dying (means)?" 
Once the Spider departed, and went to steal at the king's place: 
they took hold of him there, and said: ..Let them kill him." 
The king said: „Let them set him at liberty, do not kill him." 
The Spider returned, and went and met the Bushgoat at his 
place. 2 ) The Bushgoat said: „Oh dear, Mr. Spider! What did 
hurt thee thus?" The Spider said: „I almost died." The Bush- 
goat said again: „What is now (the meaning of) almost dying?" 
He he said: „Wait me, I will show thee to morrow (what) al- 
most dying is." They slept. In the morning the Spider said 
to the Bushgoat: „Let us go, I go to show thee (what) almost 
dying is; let us now go to the grass-field to the trap." 3 ) The 
Bushgoat did not know, that the Spider had carried his children 



1) Lit. „What is almost dying?" 

2) That is at the Bushgoat's place. 
3> Or „noose". 



— 74 — 

ro-lal, o ko wona-na ro-bi, ria ba e-tis. An-wut na Pa Nes, o- 
baki, ah'es-ri'oh: „Gbanne-Yon-a;" *) ah'es na o-lom: „Nant-eFuk- 
an;" 2 ) de ah'es na o-fet: „Gbapne Nant ro-Kos." 3 ) Na kone, 
na Pa Bo; na bap ton ka-ldme ka o-bai o yi ro-bi, o wiira gbo 
ara-bomp-r'oh ; an-fet na Pa Nes na wop-ko roraia; ri-an o kere 
Pa Bo-an. Pa Nes o bek gbo, o pa: „Man kone Iraina rodi." 
pa: „0 gbo, Pa Bo! Kali, ma ka-lome ka o-ba! o mo won 
ro-bi-a!" Ka Pa Bo o wop ara-bomp, ka Pa Nes o pa: ,.Kar- 
mi, I tsi ko gbak k'anlr." Pa Bo o tr'a he, fo an-wul na Pa 
Nes na yi ro-bi. Ma Pa Nes o mo gbak k'antr van-e, an-wut- 
n'on lia lin aka-ldme ro-bi, Pa Bo o wop ara-bomp, an-wut na 
Pa Nes na gbak aka-lim ka ka-lome. Pa Bo o Hn, o wura 'ra- 
Lomp ra ka-lome fas. An-fet na kone ka gbuke , na ko wur 
ka am-bi; a-lom 4 ) na kone ronan ro-k'or. Pa Bo o tra t.s61a: 
„Pa Nes-e! Pa Nes-e, der-o!" Pa Nes o bek, o pa: „Ko ne-e?"' 
pa ho: „I gboti ara-bomp ra ka-lome!" Pa Nes o pa: „A 
w'an! I kano-mu nan ho: kar-mi!" Pa Nes osora ow'ahet-k'on 
0-lom ro-petr, o ko kane o-bal, fo Pa Bo o gboti ka-lome-k'on 
'ra-bomp. O-bai o der de an-fam-n'oh, o pa ho: „Ko ne-e?" 
Pa Nes o pa: „Pa Bo o gboti aka-ldme 'ra-bomp." Pa Nes o 
kal kane Pa Bo soi: ,,'A trama traka wop-mu; be na yema 
wop-inu, gbuke, ma won ka am-bi na Pa Traiik." O-bai o pa: 
„Tr' 'a wop-ko." Pa Bo o gbuke, o kone; 'a bal-bal-ko, o 



1) Or: Gbanne ka-Yoh, lit. „ Carry a Yon." See Yon, ka- 
in the Vocabulary behind. 

2) Lit. „ Remove Chaff." 

3 1 Lit. „Apply oneself Snot to the Cheeks." The prefix is 
dropped with the nouns. 

4) Or: na-ran ha kone etc., „two went to etc." 



iO 



to the grass-field, and put them into the hole, having knives." 1 ) 
As to the children of the Spider, the oldest, his name (was): 
„Gbanne Yon-a;" the name of the second (was): „Nant-e Fuk- 
ah;" and the name of the youngest (was): „Gbapne Nant ro- 
Kos." They went, he and the Bushgoat; they then met one of 
the king's sheep in the hole, it only stretched out its head; the 
children of the Spider took hold of i! below; thither he led the 
Bushgoat. As soon as the Spider came, he said: „Let us go 
and stand before." 2 ) He said: „Oh dear, Mr. Bushgoat! Look, 
how one of the sheep of the king was going 3 ) into the hole!" 
Then the Bushgoat took hold of the head, and the Spider said: 
„Wait me, I shall go and cut a stick." The Bushgoat did not 
know, that the children of the Spider were in the hole. While 
the Spider was thus cutting a stick, his children pulled the 
sheep into the hole, the Bushgoat held the head, the children 
of the Spider cut the throat of the sheep. The Bushgoat pulled, 
and all at once pulled out the head of the sheep. The children 
went away running, they came out from the hole, some went 
to their own place in the farm The Bushgoat was calling: 
„Mr. Spider! Mr. Spider, pray come!" 4 ) The Spider came 
and said: „What is the matter?" He said: „I plucked off the 
head of the sheep!" The Spider said: „Ah friend! I told thee: 
wait me!" The Spider sent his other child into the town, he 
went, and told the king, that the Bushgoat had plucked off the 
head of one of his sheep. The king came with his people, and 
said: „What is the matter?" The Spider said: ,.The Bushgoat 
plucked off the sheep's head." The Spider returned and told 
the Bushgoat softly: „They are about apprehending thee; if they 
want to apprehend thee, run, 5 ) and go into the hole of the 
Ant-Eater." The king said: „Let them apprehend him." The 
Bushgoat fled, and went away; they pursued after him, and he 



1) Lit. „they had knives." 

2) Or: „Let us go before." 

3) Or: „was getting into etc.!" 

4) Like the Germ. „komm doch!" 
5. Or: „flee." 



— 7G — 

wgh ka am-bi. 'A kg tra lens-ko; kere ah-fam na tr'a he fg 
o won ro-bi. Pa Nes o kone, o kg sanne ro-bi, g pa ho: „Pa 
Bo, ma yi re-i?" Pa Bo g wosa: „I yi re and." Pa Nes o 
wura a-fgk na m'er, g sgri Pa Bo, g kane-kg fg: „Be ha yema 
mu gbip tenoh-e, aha ma der wop-mu-e, feh-ha am'er ro-fgr." 
Mg g poh pa yah-e, g pa ka ah-fam: „Kali-kg ang!" kal 
sanne, g kane Pa Bo hg: „Be ma feh ') am'er ro-fgr-e, be 'a 
bal-bal gw'uni ka-t.si; wur, ma kgne rgmi io-k'gr." Ah-fam be 
ha poh bek ro-bi, w'uni 6 w'rini g tr'a lie ma 'a ma yg-e, ha 
tr'a he bos tra wura Pa Bo-ah. 'A pa: „Pa Nes, tro sa ma 
yg-e?" pa hg: „Ma sa yi be, sa tr'a he bes; tr' 'a ko tsela 
Pa Trahk-a." Na som g-lahba, g kg tsela Pa Trahk, kg g bek. 
O-bal g pa hg: „W'an-ka-mi, Pa Trahk, besa-mi ang, ma wura- 
mi Pa Bo!" Pa Trahk g selg; kg g trap aka-bes. Ma Pa 
Trahk-ah g mg bes-e, Pa Nes g som an-wut-h'oh, ha wura aka- 
lome, na kere-kg ro-k'gr; g-baT g tr'a he tsi. Pa Trahk g bes 
ban g kg bap Pa Bo. Pa Bo g yoka m'er ma-lal, g botr ka 
ka-sah-k'gh, g feh Pa Trahk am'er ka e-fgr-y'gh. Pa Trahk-a 
g pa: „E-tgf e wgh-mi ro-fgr." O-bal g pa hg: „Feh-kg nan, 
na wura-kg e-tgf ro-fgr " O-lanba g feh e-fgr-y'gh; e-kant e 
wur, e wgh g-lahba ro-s;n'». O-lahba g pa: „A, Pa Trahk g ba 
e-kant e-bgti gba!" Ka Pa Nes g pa hg: „Traka e-kant tslah 



1) The Aorist for the Perfect tense. 



— 77 — 

went into the hole. They went to look for him; but the people 
did not know that he had gone into the hole. The Spider left, 
and went and bowed himself down at the hole, and said: 
„Mr. Bushgoat, art thou here?" The Bushgoat answered: „l 
am here." The Spider took out a parcel of salt, and gave (it) 
to the Bushgoat, and said to him: „When they want to catch 
thee to day, as to those who come to apprehend thee, blow 
them the salt into the eyes." When he had spoken thus, he 
said to the people: „Look him here!" He bowed himself down 
again, and said to the Bushgoat: „When thou hast blown the 
salt into the eyes, (and) when they pursue after that person; 1 ) 
come out, and go to my place in the farm." All the people had 
arrived at the hole, (but) none knew how they must do, they 
did not understand to dig to bring out the Bushgoat. They 
said: „Mr. Spider, how must we do?" He said: „As for us 
all, 2 ) we do not know to dig; let them call the Ant-Eater." 
They sent a young man, he went and called the Ant-Eater, and 
he arrived. The king said: „My friend, Mr. Ant-Eater, dig me 
here, and take me out the Bushgoat!" The Ant-Eater was 
willing; and he began with the digging. While the Ant-Eater 
was digging, the Spider sent his children, and they took out 
the sheep, and carried it into the farm; the king did not know 
it. The Ant-Eater digged till he came and met the Bushgoat. 
The Bushgoat took much salt, and put (it) into his mouth, and 
blew the salt into the eyes of the Ant-Eater. The Ant-Eater 
said: „ Earth got into my eyes." The king said: „Blow ye on 
him, and take out the earth from his eyes." The young man 
blew into his eyes, some gum of the eye came out, and got 
into the young man's mouth. The young man said: „Ah, the 
Ant-Eater has a very sweet 3 ) gum of the eye!" And the 
Spider said: „About the gum of the eye, about this (only) 



1) That is the Ant-Eater, the owner of the hole. 

2) Or: „As for us individually, we etc." Lit. „As we are 
all, wc etc." 

3 Or: „ delicious." 



— 78 — 

ma Irara-i?" O-baT o pa: „Mam pa yah-a?" Pa Nes o pa so: 
„Ma na nank e-kant e-bdti, Pa Trahk kdno konone kdno ta bot." 

)7 00 - - _ 7 _______ 

O-bai o pa: „Pa Trahk, der ba, I memar-a!" Pa Trahk o 
pensa, o der he. O-bal o ko ri, o kg feh-ko ro-for, e-kant e 
won o-bal ro-san, o pa: „A w'an, mun' boti gba!" Pa Trank 
o wur ka ka-bes, o ko tnima ro. O-bal o pa: „W'an, derba!" 
Pa Trank o pa: „1 der he so; ma ma pa min' boti." O-bal 
o ko ri; Pa Trahk o gbuke, ha bal-bal-ko de ka-bor-k'oh be, 
ha poh an-lal, ha batr Pa Trahk. Pa Nes o pa: „Tr' 'a dif- 
ko, kama na trara, mo o yi ka-bot-e." Na dif Pa Trahk. Ma 
ha ma tsen-ko-e, Pa Nes o pa: „I kone, I ko bah ka-mote-ka- 
mi." kone, q ko bap Pa Bo, o yi ro-bi (ro Pa Trahk o la 
nan bes-e); o kane-ko: „Wur, ma kone ro-k'or." Pa Bo o 
kone. Pa Nes o kalane, o ko bap 'a poh tsen Pa Trahk-a. 
O-bal o pa: „Pa Nes, de yer o-sem, muno som-a sa soto o- 
sem owe." Pa Nes o pa: „A, o-bal o mo yfra he, o-lahba 
o yer o-sem!" O-baT o pa: „I selo." 'A wura a-lahk, ha son 
Pa Nes, de a-fi, de aka-leha, ha son-ko. Na poh yer o-sem 
sehk. O-bal o pa: „Mah kal nan trah ro, kama sa ko wura 
Pa Bo." Pa Nes o pa: „Awa, man kone nan!" Na ko bek ri. 
O-bal o ko kali ro-bi, o pa ho: „Pa Nes, der ba, kali-a! Kali ba, 
mo w'uni o kot ano-bi-a!" Pa Nes q pa: „0 gbo! Pa Bo konoh; 



— 79 — 

thou knowest (something to say)?" The king said: „Why doosl 
thnu say so?" The Spider said again: „As ye find the gum of the 
eye to be sweet, the Ant-Eater himself he is (still) sweeter." The 
king said: „Mr. Ant-Eater, come here, that I may try!" The Ant- 
Eater refused, he did not come. The king went there, he went 
and blew into his eyes, some gum of the eye got into the king's 
mouth, and he said: „Ah friend, thou art very sweet!" The 
Ant-Eater came out from the digging, l ) and went and stood 
at some distance. The king said: „Friend, come here!" The 
Ant-Eater said: „1 do not come again; because thou saidst that 
I was sweet." The king went there; the Ant-Eater fled, they 
pursued after him with all his people, 2 ) they went all over the 
grass-field, and seized the Ant-Eater. The Spider said: „Let them 
kill him, that ye may know how sweet he is." 3 ) They killed 
the Ant-Eater. When they were cutting him up, the Spider 
said: „1 go away, 1 go to fetch my basket." He left, and went 
and met the Bushgoat, he was in the hole (where the Ant-Eater 
used to dig); he said to him: „Come out, and go to the farm." 
The Bushgoat went. The Spider returned, he went and found 
that they had done with cutting up the Ant-Eater. The king 
said: „Mr. Spider, come share the meat, thou wast the cause 
that we got this meat." The Spider said: „Ah, the king 
is not sitting down, and a young man shares the meal!" 
The king said: „I am willing." They took out a leg, and 
gave (it) to the Spider, and one of the loins, and the tail, 
they gave (them) to him. They had done with sharing the 
whole of the meat. The king said: „Let us (now again) fol- 
low yonder, that we may go and take out the Bushgoat." The 
Spider said: „Well, let us go!" They went and reached there. 
The king went and looked into the hole, and said: „ Mr. Spider, 
come now, look! Look now, how somebody walked here in 
the hole!" The Spider said: „Oh dear! It is the Bushgoat; 



1) That is from the place where he dug. 

2) That is with all the kings people; lit. „all his domestics etc" 

3) Lit. „how he is sweetnees." 



— HO — 

o kone'." O-bai o tr'a he tsi, fo kono o ko kane Pa Bo 
hg: ,.Kdne romi ro-k'or." O-ba! o pa: „Man kal nan ro- 
petr." Na ko bek ro-petr. Pa Nes o kone ro-k'or. o ko bah 
Fa Bo, o kara-ko, o re mahk-ko ka ah-kant rorarah. O-bal o 
kal tsela Pa Nes-ah, o pa rohoh: „Man tensa-mi Pa Bo, muno 
trara ma-sot!" Pa Bo, konoh 'a ma ten') be, 'a nam fe ko. 
Pa Bo o tral mo o-bal o mo bahsa ro-petr, o minta he so wur 
ro-petr. Pa Nes o ko pa ka Pa Bo: „Tro pe-e? Tro pe-e?" 
Pa Bo o pa: „A, 1 bun fi ro-bi, Pa Nes!" Kono pa: „Ma trara 
tenon ka-bun fi-i?" Ko o pa: „Ah, I trara." Pa Nes o pa 
so: „Ma ta tr'a he ka-bun fi." Pa Bo o minta he so wnr ro- 
petr. Pa Nes o pa: „Kar-mi, I tsi trori-mu ka-bun fi, kargbo!" 
Pa Nes o kone ro-kant, o ko nahk ah-wut ha Pa Sip-a. 
kalane, bek ka Pa Bo, o pa ho: „Ra-bomp-ra-mi ra bah; Pa 
Bo, mam paia-mi, I ko wont a-trol " Na ko bap aii-wut ha 
Pa Sip-a, ha ha-rah, ha fanta. Pa Nes-a o kane Pa Bo: „Ko 
fokia-mi ah'antr ahah, (ro tra-sip ha-rah ha fanta)." Pa Bo o 
kg nahk-ha, o tsela Pa Nes-a. Pa Nes o bek, o pa: „0 gbo! 
Ko e-sem ha he-e?" Pa Bo o pa: „Mam ba-ha." Pa Nes o 
pa so: „Mam ba-ha." Na yoka-ha. Ma ha kone o-tan-e, Pa 
Nes o pa: „Man dif-ha." Na dif-na. Pa Nes o kal kane Pa 
Bo, o pa ho: „Kone romu ro-k'or, 1 tsi bap-mu tete." Pa Bo 



1) Or: kon' 'a ma ten etc, „him they were seeking etc." 



— 81 — 

he is gone!" The king did not know, that he had gone and told 
the Bushgoat: ,.Go to my place in the farm." The king said: ,.Let 
us return to town.' - They went and came into the town. The 
Spider went into the farm, he went and fetched the Bushgoat, he 
brought him, and came and hid him in the wood behind. The 
king called the Spider again, and said to him: „Come now, seek 
the Bushgoat for me, thou art acquainted with artifices!" As 
to the Bushgoat, him they were seeking all about; (but) they 
did not see him. The Bushgoat heard how angry the king was 
in town, and dared not lo come out again into the town. The 
Spider went and said to the Bushgoat: „Ho\v doest thou do? 
How doest thou do?" l ) The Bushgoat said: „Ah, 1 almost died 
in the hole, Mr. Spider!" He said: „Doest thou understand 
now (what) almost dying (is)?" 2 ) And he said: ,.Yes, 1 under- 
stand (it)" The Spider said: „Thou doest not yet know (what) 
almost dying (is)." The Bushgoat did not venture again to come 
out into town. The Spider said: „\Yait me, I will show thee 
(what) almost dying (is), only wait!" The Spider went away 
into the wood, and went and saw the children of the Leopard. 
He returned, and came to the Bushgoat and said: „My head 
aches; Mr. Bushgoat, come, go with me, 3 ) I go to look for 
medicine." They went and met the children of the Leopard, 
they were two, they lay down. The Spider said to the Bush- 
goat: „Go bark me that tree,') (where the two leopards lay)." 
The Bushgoat went and saw them, (and) he called the Spider. 
The Spider came and said: „Oh dear! What beasts are these?" 
The Bushgoat said: „Lel us have Ihem." The Spider said also: 
„Let us have them." They look them. When they had gone 
a little (way), the Spider said: „Let us kill them." They killed 
them. The Spider told the Bushgoat again, saying: 3 ) „Go to thy 
place in the farm, I shall meet thee presently." The Bushgoat 



1) Lit. „IIow is it? How is it?" 

2) Lit. „Doest thou know to day almost dying?' 

3) Lit. „he said etc." 
4) 

Temnc-Fabclu. (j 



— 82 — 

kgne ro-k'or. Pa Sip-a g bek ro q botr ah-wut-h'gh, o nank 
fe ha so; kg mo o tranane am-bontr ro 'a kere-ha, o kg bek 
ro-k'gr ka Pa Bo; o bap Pa Bo g tra lap an'antr. Pa Nes o 
der, o m^iikne, o tra kali Pa Bo; mo o pon Irara, fo Pa Sip 
o tra der tra ten ah-wut-h'gh. Pa Sip o der ten ah-wut-h'gh, 
pa ho: „Pa Bo, kane kara an-wut-'a-mi ang-eV" kg \6ka- 
ha, 'a pon fi ton. pS so: „Pa Bo, mung dif an-wut-'a-mi-i?" 
Pa Bo g gbuke. Pa Sip g pi;ira kg bal-bal pali. Pa Bo g kg 
m<1rikne ka g-bal ra-fgl. Pa Sip g bek, g pa ka g-bai: „Pa Bo 
g bek ang-i?" O-bal g pa: „0 yi re." vif so Pa Sip: 
„Ko ne-e?" Pa Sip g pa so: „0 poii dif ari-wut-'a-mi." 0- 
bal g pa ho: „Kali-kg roraran; g dif lg ngn ka-lgme-ka-mi." 
Pa Sip g kg ri roraran. Pa Bo g gbuke, g tran-kg tra ka- 
bal-bal-kg, hah g kg mahkne ka Pa Nes; Pa Sip g nank fe 
kg sg. Pa Sip g kal kgne ka g-bal, g \if-kg sg hg : „Pa 
Bo g bek ang-i?" pa: „I nank fe kg." Pa Nes g kgne, 
g kg yoka ah-wut ha Pa Sip, g kg kal-na, g patr-ha; g trel 
ah-fatr ro-k'arah, g kgne ro-petr, g bap Pa Sip-a, ha tra 
pa re g-bai-ah trgka ah-wut. Pa Nes g pa rghah: „Ko tr'ei 
tra na ma pa ang-e?" Pa Sip o pa sg : „Pa Bo g poh dif 
ah-wut -'a -mi." Pa Nes g pa: „A, Pa Bo! Yg g yi gbo 
tcihkah; o dif lo hoh ah-wut-'a-mi!" O-bal g pa ka Pa Sip: 



— 83 — 

wcnl to the farm. The Leopard came to the place where 
he 1 ) had put his children, (and) he did not see them again; 
and as he followed up the scent (in the way), where they carried 
them, he went and arrived at the farm of the Bushgoat, he met 
the Bushgoat stirring up the fire. The Spider came, he hid 
himself, and was looking at the Bushgoat; as he had learned, 
that the Leopard was coming to look for 2 ) his children. The 
Leopard came in order to seek his children, and said: „Mr. Bush- 
goat, who carried my children to this place?" He went and 
took them up, they were dead then. 3 ) He said again: „Mr. 
Bushgoat, didst thou kill my children?" The Bushgoat fled. 
The Leopard spent the whole day in pursuing after him. The 
Bushgoat went and hid himself with the, king 4 ) in the evening. 
The Leopard came, and said to the king: „Did the Bushgoat 
arrive here?" The king said: „He is here." He asked the 
Leopard again: „\Vhat is the matter?" The Leopard said: „He 
has killed my children." The king said: „See him behind (the 
yard); he killed the other day a sheep of mine." The Leopard 
went there behind. The Bushgoat fled, he followed him in order 
to pursue after him, till he went and hid himself at the Spider's 
place; (and) the Leopard did not see him again. The Leopard 
went back again to the king, and asked him again: „Did the 
Bushgoat come here?" He said: „1 did not see him." The 
Spider left, and went and look the children of the Leopard, and 
went and broiled them, and cooked them; he left the iron pot 
on the fire-place, and went into the town, and met the Leopard, 
they were talking with the king about the children. The Spider 
said to them: „Whal matter are ye talking about here?" The 
Leopard said again: „The Bushgoat has killed my children." 
The Spider said: „Ah, the Bushgoat, thus he is but always; he 
killed my children the other day!" The king said to the Leopard: 



1) Lit. „Thc Leopard arrived where he etc." 

2) Or „to seek etc." 

3) Or „ already." 

4) Or „at the king's place etc." 

u* 



— 84 — 

„Tens-ko." Fa Sip o wur, o kone traka ka-ten Pa Bo; o kg 
gb^nne-kg ro-r'on; o bal-bal-ko. Pa Bo o kg mankne so ro- 
kant, Pa Sip o nank fe ko so; kere Pa Bo o ko mankne ro- 
raran ka Pa Nes. Pa Nes o trala-ko ri, o ko nan'-ko ri, o pa: 

O -0-'--G-'-I 

„Mah kone di, I poh pair." Pa Bo o pa: „1 minta he, o-ba! 
o poh mi wahki." Pa Nes o pa so: „I kara-mu e-nak ano-i?" 
Pa Bo o pa: „Yao, kara and." Pa Nes o kere-ko e-nak; ha 
yira gbo, ha di. Pa Nes o pa so: „Tro pe-mu-e, Pa Bo? u 
Pa Bo o pa: „l bun fi; ha bun mi dif " Pa Nes o pa so: 
„Ma trara tenon ka-bun fi-i?" pa: „I trara-ki tenon." Pa 
Nes o pa ho: „Ma ma pa nan fo ma tr'a he ki nah-a." Pa 
Bo o pa so: „Kere I trara-ki tenon." Pa Nes o pa so: „Man 
di lemp lemp, kama ma gbuke. Be Pa Sip o trala am-bontr- 
'a-mu-e, ro ma ko be, o tra tran-mu; kone o-boli." Pel Bo 
gbuke so (ma ha poh di), o kone o-boli. Pa Sip o tens- 
ko, hah o tamro; o kone so ka o-bal. Pa Nes so, mo o trara, 
fo Pa Sip o kone ka Q-bai, o ko ri so. bap Pa Sip, o tra 
pa-tsi so traka Pa Bo. O-bal o pa ka Pa Sip: „Bo ma n§h'- 
ko be, batr-ko, ma kara-ko romi." Pa Nes o pa so: „Bo ma 
nan'-ko be, gbip-ko, ma kara." Kon' so o kone, o ko bah 
Pa Bo; o k^ne-ko, fo ka-trak ka poh. Ma ha bek ro-petr-e, 
Pa Nes o k^ne Pa Bo: „Trah and, kama ma ko wur rorarah 
ka g-bal." Kon' q kal kdne ka Pa Sip-ah, o pa ho: „Kgne ro- 
rarah ka o-bal, ma ko mankne ro-r'oh; Pa Bo, I poh kara-kg." 



— 85 — 

„Seek him." The Leopard went out, and went away in order 
to seek the Bushgoat; he went and met him in the road; he 
pursued after him. The Bushgoat went and hid himself again 
in the bush, (and) the Leopard did not see him again; but the 
Bushgoat went and hid himself at the back-part of the Spider's 
place. The Spider heard him there, and went to see him there, 
and said: „Let us go to eat, I have cooked." The Bushgoat 
said: „l do not dare, the king has outlawed me." The Spider 
said again: „Shall I bring thee the rice here?" The Bushgoat 
said: „Yes, bring (it) here." The Spider carried the rice to 
him; they just sat down, and ate. The Spider said again: 
„How art thou, Mr. Bushgoat?" The Bushgoat said: „I almost 
died; they almost killed me." The Spider said again: „Doest 
thou know now (what) almost dying (is)?" He said: „I know 
it now." The Spider said: „Because thou saidst before that 
thou didst not know it." The Bushgoat said again: „But I 
know it now." The Spider said again: „Let us eat very quickly, 
that thou mayest flee. If the Leopard gets the scent of thee, 
wherever thou goest, he will follow thee; go far away." The 
Bushgoat fled again (when they had eaten), and went far away. 
The Leopard sought him, till he was tired; 1 ) and he went again 
to the king's place. The Spider also, when he knew, that the 
Leopard had gone to the king's place, went there too. He met 
the Leopard, he was talking over again the matter about the 
Bushgoat. 2 ) The King said to the Leopard: „Wherever thou 
seest him, seize him, and bring him to me." The Spider also 
said: „Wherever thou seest him, catch him, and bring (him)." 
He also left, and went to fetch the Bushgoat; he told him, that 
the palaver was done." When they came to the town, the 
Spider said to the Bushgoat: „Follow here, that thou ma vest 
come out behind the king's place." He went again to the Leo- 
pard, and said: „Go behind the king's place, and go and hide 
thyself in the road; as to the Bushgoat, I have brought him." 



1) Lit. „ till he \v;is overcome." 

2) Lit. „he was talking it over again about etc." 



_ 8fi — 

Pa Sip o kg mahkne ri; Pa Bo o bek; Pa Sip g vvop-kg. Pa 
Bo o kulo. O-bal o pa ho: „Ko he-e? Kane nig kulg roraran- 
e?" Pa Sip o pa: „1 solo Pa Bo." O-bai o pa: „Kara-kg." 
Pa Sip o kara-kg, 'a dif-kg. Ma ha poh dif Pa Bo-e, Pa Nes 
bek. O-bai o pa: „Tro sa ma yg-kg-e?" Pa Sip o pa: 
„Tr' 'a tsen-ko; mg g pon sgm ah-wut-'a-mi, mina, I tsi sgm- 
kg." Na pon-kg tsen senk. Pa Sip g pa hg: „Tr' 'a ;yer Pa 
>*es-a g-lal, kgng som I sgtg-kg." O-bai g pa ka Pa Sip sg: 
„Ro ma nahk a-bo be, gbip-kg." 



Tsian Pa Sip g tra gbip tra-bo, na ma nankane he sg 
tankan; ro g nan'-kg, g gbip-kg. TMah sg ah-\vut na Pa Bo, 
na trgri Pa Yari fg: „Be ma nahk Pa Nes-ah , gbip-kg, w'uni 
las wgh." Tsiah sg g-sip g nahk gbo a-bo-e, g gbip-kg, g poh 
kg sgm; de a-yari, be g nahk gbo a-nes-e g sgm-kg. 



Ah' ump VII. 

O-BaT re O'wan-k'gh g-bera, de Pa Tamba. 

O-bal g-lgm g kom lapah w'ahet bera, kg g vi g-fino tahka 
be, kg g ruasm-ko, hah g poh bak; ka a-fam a-ri'ini ha yema- 
kg. Kg g-y6la g re ten-kg, g pa: ,,0-iani-ka-mi won." Kg 
g sgh a-kala a-gbati ka o-bal, g-kas ka o-bera; kg g-kas-k'gh g 
pa hg: „Botr ah-kala-'a-mu; be ma bontr ar'aka, ara yi ka ah- 
sebe rok'6r-e, g-bera ma nantra-kg." Kere g tr'a he ar'aka, 



— 87 — 

The Leopard went and hid himself there; the Bushgoat came, 
(and) the Leopard took hold of him. The Bushgoat cried. The 
king said: „What is the matter? Who is crying behind?" 
The Leopard said: „I have got the Bushgoat." The king said: 
„Bring him." The Leopard brought him, (and) they killed him. 
When they had killed the Bushgoat, the Spider arrived. The 
king said: „What shall we do with him?" The Leopard said: 
„Let them cut him up; as he has devoured my children, 1 shall 
devour him." They had cut up the whole. The Leopard said: 
„Let them give much to the Spider, he caused me to get him." 
The king said to the Leopard again: „W T herever thou seest a 
bushgoat, catch him." 

This is the reason that the Leopard is catching bushgoats, 
they never meet each other again face to face; where he sees 
him, he catches him. This is also the reason that the children 
of the Bushgoat told') the Cat: „When thou doest see the 
Spider, catch him, he is a bad person." 2 ) This is also the 
reason that as soon as a leopard sees a bushgoat, he catches 
it, and entirely devours it; and a cat, as soon as it sees a 
spider, it devours it. 

Fable VII. 

The King and his Daughter, and Mr. Tarnba. 

A certain king begat once a girl, and she was exceedingly 
fair, and he brought her up, till she was grown up; and men 
wanted her. And a gentleman came and tried to get her, 3 ) he 
said: „She is my wife." 4 ) And he offered much money to the 
king, the father of the woman; and her father said: „Put down thy 
money; if thou doest name the thing, which is within the amulet, 
thou shalt marry the woman." s ) But he did not know the thing, 



1) Lit. „informed." 

2) Lit. „a bad person that." 

3i Lit. „came to seek" or „came to obtain her." 

4) Lit. „My wife that one." 

5) „(as for) the woman, thou marriest her." 



— 88 — 

ara yi ka ah-sebe rok'6r-e; ko o-kas ka o-bera o pa: „Ma tamro, 
kalane." Ko g-y6la g-Igm o der so, o re ten o-borko, ko o 
son so a-kala a-gbati. O-kas ka o-bera o pa so: „Botr an- 
kala-'a-mu; be ma bonlr ar'aka, ara yi ka an-sebe rok'6r-e, ma 
nantra o-bera." Krre o-l&riba o tamro, o tr'a he ar'aka, ara ;yi 
ka an-sebe rok'or, ko o-kas o pa: „Kalane." Ka ah-fam be ka 
an-tof na der memar, ka na tamro; na tr'a he ar'aka, ara yi 
ka an-sebe rok'or. Ko Tamba o yefa ro-toron o-boli, o re ten 
o-borko, o pa ho: „I tsi soto-ko, o-rani-ka-mi won." Ka an- 
fam na pa ho: „Tamba, ma yema, ma tana he ko soto, ma a 
yola be na pon tamro." Ko mo o kone, y ba e-troko, o ba 
pa-la pa-fera, de pa-la pa woraa; ko o ba w'ir, o ba ma-yante, 
de m'aro, de e-tuk ya pa-la. Ko mo o kone, o bap Pa Ra- 
bem-an, ') d'or ra baki-na; o yif-na: „Ko ne-e?" Napa: „D'or 
ra baki-su." Ko o soi'i-na e-tuk. Ma na pon di-yi, o tas, o 
ko bap Pa Kwl-an, o pa: ,,Ko he-e?" Kon' o pa: „D'or ra 
baki-mi." wura ovv'ir,- ko o son-ko. tas, o ko bap Pa 
R'of-an, o pa: „Ko ne-e ma fanta ano-e?" Pa R'of o pa: 
„D'or ra baki-mi." Tamba o wura e-troko na-rari, o son-ko. 
Ma Pa R'of-an o pon di e-troko, o wura a-trol, o son Pa 
Tamba. An-trol, an'es-na-tsi nia yi: k«vwoso. pa ho: „Be 
a-bok o nan w'rini, an-trgl ane nia ma yo, hia w'uni mo mun; 



1' The Singular is here used for the Plural, or for the 
whole species; hence the plur. form of the pron. in the follow- 
ing sentences. 



— 89 — 

which was within the amulet; and the father of the woman said: 
„Thou art disappointed, return." Then another gentleman came 
again, he came and tried to get 1 ) the damsel, and he offered 
also much money. The father of the woman said again: „Pul 
down thy money; if thou doesl name the thing, which is within 
the amulet, thou doest marry the woman." But the young man 
was disappointed, he did not know the thing, which was within 
the amulet; and the father said: „ Return." And all the people 
in the country came to try, and they were disappointed; they 
did not know the thing, which was within the amulet. And 
Tamba came from the east a far way off, he came and tried to 
gel 1 ) the damsel, and said: ,.I shall get her, she is my wife." 2 ) 
And the people said: „Tamba, thou doest tell a lie, thou art not 
able to get her; when 3 ) all gentlemen have been disappointed." 
And as he went along, he had fowls, he had clean rice, and 
rice in the husk; and he had a goat, he had penne seed,*) and 
palm-oil, and rice-straw. And as he went, he met the Hedge- 
hog, 5 ) hunger was heavy upon them; he asked them: „What is 
the matter?" They said. „Hunger is heavy upon us." And 
he gave them straw. When they had eaten it, he passed on, 
and went and met the Alligator, and said (to him): „What is 
the matter?" He said: „Hunger is heavy upon me." He took 
out the goat, and gave (it) to him. He passed on, and went 
and met the Cerastes, and said (to him). „What is the matter 
that thou doest lie here?" The Cerastes said: „Hunger is 
heavy upon me." Tamba took out two fowls, and gave (them) 
to him. When the Cerastes had eaten the fowls, he took out 
a medicine, and gave (it) to Mr. Tamba. As to the medicine, 
the name of it is: ka-woso. He said: „lf a snake bites a per- 
son, this medicine they must make, this one must drink; 



1) Or: „to obtain." 

2) Lit. „my wife that one." 

3) Or: „ because all etc." 

4) A kind of millet. 

5) Or: „ Grass-cutter." See the word in the Vocabulary. 



— 90 — 

kama pa tgf'lg-kg." Pa R'of-an o pa so: ,.Tr' 'a kg ten ma- 
fit 1 ) ma w'uni vanfa, tr' 'a botr-na ka an-trol." Tamba o tas, 
o ko bap Pa Tr'ak-na, o pa rghgh: 2 ) „Ko he-e?" pa: 3 ) 
„D'or ra bah-su." wura ma-yante, de m'aro, o soil ka Pa 
Tr'ak-ha, na di. tas, o kone, o ko bek ro ka o-bal, o-kas 
ka gw'ahet bera, o pa roiioii fo: „I der ten ow'ahet bera traka 
nantra-ko. O-santki ka o-bai o pa ho: „A Tamba, miino yal 
owe ma der ten o-bera owe-i?" Tamba o pa: „I tsi nantra- 
ko, g-rani-ka-mi won." D'or ra baki ka a-bo! na o-bal, ko 
Tamba o wura pa-la, o son-ko. Ma am-bol o poii di-e, g kone 
ro ka Pa Tamba, g kg bontra-kg ey'etr, eye yi ka ah-sebe ro- 
k'6r-e; ha kg dira. Ka-bat 'a kg yira traka pa tra ka-nantra. 
O-kas ka g-bera g yif Tamba hg: „Ma yema g-bgrkg-i? Bontr 
ar'aka, ara yi ka ah-sebe rok'or." Tamba g pa: „I trara-tsi ; 
kere I minta he." O-kas g pa sg: „Bontr-yi, tra ba he tr'ei." 
pa: „I selg." Tamba g pa hg: „Ah-fon ha Pa, mo g yi g- 
fet-e tapah, de aka-bont-k'oh, de e-santrak-y'gh, yiah yi rok'or 
ka ah-sebe." Ma Tamba g pa yah-e, g-santki g pa: „Ma 
yema." Kg g yoka-kg, kg g trand-kg. Kg g-bal g pa: „Yao, 
ka-su-ka-mi ka dinne tapah ro-lal; be ma wura-ki, ma nantra 



1) The indefinite form for the definite one, as it cannot be 
misunderstood. 

2) Or: rohah, „to them." See the word k'ak, which is the 
Sing, of tr'ak in the Vocabulary behind. 

3) Or: Na pa: „they said:" 



— 91 — 

that it may get better with him. 1 ) The Cerastes said again: „Let 
them go look for the brains of a deceitful person, (and) let them 
put them into the medicine." Tamba passed on, and went and 
met the Ants, 2 ) and said to him: 3 ) „What is the matter?" He 
said: 3 ) „Hunger troubles us." He took out penne seed, and palm- 
oil, and gave, (them) to the Ants, (and) they ate. He passed on, 
and left, and went and came to the king, the father of the girl, 
and said to him: „I come to look for 4 ) the girl in order to marry 
her." A minister of the king said: „Ah Tamba! Thou, such a 
worthless fellow, 5 ) thou doest come to look for this woman?" 
Tamba said: „I shall marry her, she is my wife." 6 ) Hunger 
was heavy upon a servant of the king, and Tamba took out 
rice, and gave (it) to him. When the servant had eaten, he 
went to Mr. Tamba, and went and named to him the things, 
which were within the amulet; (and) they went to sleep. In 
the morning they went and sat down to talk about the. marriage. 
The father of the woman asked Tamba: „Doesl thou want the 
damsel? 7 ) Name the thing, which is within the amulet." Tamba 
said: „1 know it; but I do not dare (to name it)." The father 
said again: „Naine them, it is of no consequence." He said: 
„I will." Tamba said: „The hair of the Master, when he was 
a young child formerly, and his navel-string, and his nails, 8 ) 
these (things) are within the amulet." As Tamba spoke thus, 
the minister said: „Thou doest tell a lie." And he took him. 
and chained him. And the king said: „\Yell, my pipe was once 
lost on the grass-field; if thou doest find it out, thou shall marry 



1) Lit. „that it may get easy with him," — „that he may 
become easy," or „get out of danger." 

2) Lit „implying the whole species." 

3) The Singular for the Plural. 

4) Or: „to obtain." 

5) Lit. „Thou, this worthless one. thou etc." 

6) Lit. „my wife that." 

7) Here is an ellipsis of a few words, as: „Doest thou want 
the damsel ? If so, name the thing etc." 

8 That is , cuttings of them'. 



— 92 — 

g-bera." Tamba o pa: „Yao, I tsi wura-ki." Kg mg g kgne ro- 
lal, o ko bap Pa Ra-bem-ari, o vif-kg: „Re man kg-e, Tamba?" 

pa: „1 ko ten aka-su ka g-bal, ka dinne tapah-e." Pa Ra- 
bem-a g pa hg: „Kar-mi, 1 kg baha-mu-ki." kg bah-ki, g 
son Tamba. Tamba g kere ka-su ka g-bal. Kere g-santki g 
pa hg: „Ma yema, ki tahg." Kg g wop-kg, g yg-na 'a sap- 
kg. Kg g-bal g pa: „Tser-kg nan."' Na tser-kg. Kg g-bal g 
pa sg: „Ak'gnte-ka-mi ka dinne tapari ro-ban; be ma wura-ki, 

1 tsi sgn-mu g-bera." Tamba g pa: „I Isi wiira-ki." Tamba 
g kgne, g kg bap Pa Kwl-ah; kgn' g pa hg: „Tamba, ko ne- 
e?" pa: „I kg wiira ak'gnte ka g-bal, aka dinne tapan ro- 
bah." Pa K\vl-a g kgne tete, g kg wura-ki, g sgn Tamba. 
Tamba g kara-ki ka g-bal, g re sgh-kg. O-santki g pa hg: „A, 
w'uni las! Tr' 'a bal-kg!" O-bal g pa: „De, I bal he kg." 
O-bai g pa sg: „Tamba, apa-la-pa-mi ah-fet na poh pantrane-pi 
de ma-yante; be ma poh wiira ama-yante ka pa -la, ma tra 
n antra g-bgrkg." Tamba g pa: „l selg, I tsi wura-na." Tamba 
g pa: „Tr' 'a kara apa-la." Na kara-pi. yira ro-set, g tra 
wiira apa-la ka ama-yante. Mg g mg yg ama-pant ame, Pa 
Tr'ak l ) g bek, na gbati, na yif Tamba: „Ko ma yg ang-e?" 
Tamba g pa hg: ,,0-bal g sgh-mi ama-pant ame, kama I wiira 



1) Here Pa is in the Sing. , and Tr'ak in the Plur. ; the 
following pron. is governed by Pa, and therefore in the Singular. 
See the word k'ak in the Vocab. behind. 



— 93 — 

the woman." 1 ) Tamba said: „Yes, I shall find it out." And 
as he went to the grass-field, he happened 2 ) to meet the Grass- 
cutter, who 3 ) asked him: „Where art thou going to, Tamba?" 
He said: „I go to look for*) the pipe of the king, it was once 
lost." The Grass-cutter said; „Wait me, I shall fetch it for 
thee." He went and fetched it, and gave (it) to Tamba. Tamba 
carried the pipe to tbe king. But the minister said: „Thou 
doest tell a lie, it is not this." And he seized him, and caused 
them to beat him. The king said: „Let him go." They let 
him go. And the king said again: „My cymbal 5 ) was once lost 
in the sea; 6 ) if thou doest find it out, I shall give thee the 
woman." Tamba said: „I shall find it out." Tamba left, and 
happened to meet the Alligator; he said: „ Tamba, what is the 
matter?" He said: „1 go to find out the cymbal of the king, 
which was formerly lost in the sea." 6 ) The Alligator departed 
directly, and went and found it out, 7 ) and gave (it) to Tamba. 
Tamba brought it to the king, and came and gave (it) to him. 
The minister said: „Ah. a bad person! Let them drive him 
away!" The king said: „No, I do not. drive him away." The 
king said again : „Tamba, as regards my rice the children have 
mixed it with penne-seed; when thou hast taken out the penne- 
seed from the rice, thou shall marry the damsel." Tamba said: 
„1 will. I shall take it out." Tamba said. „Lcl them bring 
the rice." They brought it. He sat down in the house, and 
was taking out the rice from the penne-seed. As he was 
doing this work, the Ants 8 ) came, they were numerous, (and) 
they asked Tamba: „What doest thou do here?" Tamba 
said: „The king gave me this work, that 1 might take out 

1) Lit. „thou marriest the woman." 

2) Lit. „he went (and) met etc." 

3) Lit. „he asked etc." 

4) Or: „to seek." 

5) See the word k'onte in the Vocabulary. 

6) Or: „in the water." 

7) Or: „took it out." 

8) The wole species is implied. 



— 04 — 

apa-!a ka ama-yante ame." Pa Tr'ak o pa: „Ylra, kar-su." 
T6te na pon wiira apa-la ka ma-yante be; apa-la pa-fera ra ka- 
balai k'in, ama-yante ra ka-balai ka-lgm. Tamba o yoka aira- 
balal tra-ran atse, o kg tramar-tsi ka g-bal, o pa: „I poh." 
O-Scintki o pa ho: „ Tamba o yi w'uni las, tr' 'a fal-kg." Na 
yoka -kg, iia sap -kg, 'a trand-ko. O-bal o kane an-rani-n'on 
lVanle, o pa: „Kone, na ko kuta-mi m'anlr, I yema biikg." Na 
kone, de vv'ahet bt v ra g-lom, g beka tramat. Ma ha kg-e, Pa 
R'gf g gbatr-ha') be, tambe ow'ahet bera g gbatr 'j he kg. 
Qw'ahet g gbuke, g de kane g-bal hg: „Pa R'gf g gbatr 1 ) am- 
borkg be ro-bat." 'A kgne, 'a kg bah-ha, 'a kara. 2 ) W'uni 6 
w'uni g Ir'a he an-trgl traka yehkas-ha ma-der; ha poh pika 
be, ha fanta. O-bai g pa: ,,Tr' 'a tsela Tamba, kgng trara tr'ei." 
Na t.sela Tamba; g der, g-bal g pa rghgh : „Tamba, kali ah- 
rani-'a-mi, ha tra fi; Pa R'gf g gbatr-ha; 1 ) ma trara an-trgl ha- 
tsi-i?" Tamba g pa hg: „I trara." O-bal g pa sg: „Ygna-mi 
an-trgl-e." Tamba g pa: „Tr' 'a kg ten ma-fit 3 ) ma w'uni yahfa; 
miah me ygna-hi; tete na tra yokane." O-bal g pa: „I rnalane." 
yoka a-bar, g sut-hi g-Sthitki ra-bomp, ma-fit 1 ) ma wur; ha 
yoka-ha, ha-sgh Tamba; kgn' g yoka-ha, g ruhkatr-ha ka an- 
trgl. sgh-hi ka g-bera g-kin, g yokane. O-bal g pa: „Ba- 
sara-mi, w'an-ka-mi!" Tamba g pa sg: „Tena-n i ma-fit 3 ) ma 
w'uni yahfa, ame ma poh." Q-bal g yg 'a sut g-santki g-lgm 
ka 'ra-bomp sg; ma-flt 3 ) ma wur, ha soh-ha ka Tthnba; g yoka, 
g botr ka an-trgl traka g-bera g-lgm; g sokane sg. O-ba! g 
pa sg: „>V'an-ka-mi, ramara-mi tg lemp ah-rani-'a-mi ha-rah, 



1) Or: nan, „bit." 
2 1 The Object is dropped here. 

3) The indefinite form for the definite one, as it cannot be 
misunderstood. 



— 95 — 

the rice from this penne-seed." The Ants said: „Sit down, (and) 
wait us." Presently they had taken out the rice from all the penne- 
seed; the clean rice in one basket, (and) the penne-seed into 
another basket. Tainba took these two baskets, and went and put 
them before the king, ') and said: „I have done." The minister 
said : „Tamba is a bad man, lei them cut his throat." They look 
him, and beat him, and chained him. The king told his four 
wives, and said : „Depart ye, and go and scoop water for me, 
I want to bathe." They went, and another girl, making five. 
When they went, the Cerastes knocked (stung) all of them, 
except the girl he did not knock (sling) her. The girl ran, and 
came and told the king (saying): „The Cerastes has knocked 
(stung) all the young women at the brook." They left, and 
went to fetch them, and brought (them). No one knew the 
medicine to cure them; they had all fainted, and lay down. The 
king said: „Let them call Tamba, he is clever." 2 ) They called 
Tamba; he came, (and) the king said to him: „Tamba, look at 
my wives, they are dying; the Cerastes knocked (stung) them; 
doest thou know the medicine for it?" Tamba said: „1 know." 
The king said again: „Make me the medicine." Tainba said: 
„Let them go and look for the brains of a deceitful person; 
with them I must make it; (and) directly they will get up 
again." The king said: „I agree (to it)." He took an iron 
bar, and knocked a minister on (he head with it; the brains 
came out, they took them, and gave (them) to Tamba; he took 
them, and mixed them with the medicine. He gave it to one 
woman, (and) she got up. The king said: „Go on for me, my 
friend!" Tamba said again: „Get me the brains of a deceitful 
person, these are finished." The king made them knoek again 
another minister on his head; the brains came out, they gave 
them to Tamba; he took (them), and put (them) into the med- 
icine for another woman ; (and) she got up also. The king 
said again: „My friend, heal me now quickly my two wives, 



1) Lit. „placed them before etc." 

2) Lit. „he knows something." 



— 96 — 

ana tsia." Tamba o pa so: „Tr' 'a kara ma-fit ma w'rini varifa." 
kal sut g-santki g-lgm, 'a wiira ma-fit-m'gri, 'a son Tamba; 
kon' o yoka-na, o botr ka an-trol, o son am-bera na-rari, ana 
tsia; iia yenk tete ma-der, na yokane. Kere an-santki a-lom 
na o-bal, ana tsia, na gbiike, na kone. Ma an-santki, ana tsia, 
na gbiike, na pon kone; o-bai g wiira y'etr e-lopra, o son 
Tamba; g sgii-kg sg g-bgrkg, gug g der tapan tra re ten-e. 
O-bal g \Mira sg ka-lenken ka-lgm ka ka-pelr-k'gii, g sgii-ki ka 
Tamba. wiira sg tra-petr tra a-trar tra-raii, de an-trar be, 
g sgii-tsi Tamba; kgn' g sake sg g-}6la g-bana. Kg g-bal g 
bak; mo g pon bak yan-e, g son Tamba an-tgf-h'gii, g pa hg: 
,.Be 1 fi-e, Tamba, kgng na ma pglg g-bal." Mg g-bal g re 
fi-e, na wiira 'ra-bal, na sgn Tamba; kgn' g kal sg sgtg a-fgsa, 
de a-kala, g tas g-bal tapan. 



— 97 — 

who are left." 1 ) Tainba said again: „Let them bring 1 he brains 
of a deceitful person." He knocked again another minister, 'hey 
took out his brains, they gave (them) to Tamba; (and) he took 
them, and put them into the medicine, and gave (it) to the 
two women, who were left; 1 ) they got well directly, and got 
up. But the other ministers of the king, who were left, 1 ) 
fled, and went away. When the ministers, who were left,') 
had fled, and gone away; the king took out 2 ) clothing, and 
gave (it) to Tamba; he gave him also the damsel, for whom 
he came formerly to obtain her. The king also took out 2 ) some 
neigbouring yard in his town, and gave it to Tamba. He also 
took out 2 ) two slave-towns, with all the slaves, and gave them 
to Tamba; (and) he also became a great gentleman. And the 
king got old; when lie had grown old thus, he gave Tamba his 
country, and said (to his people): „When I am dead, Tamba, 
him ye must make king." When the king came to die, they 
took the kingdom, and gave (it) !o Tamba; (and) he also got 
again power, and property, more than the former king. 3 ) 



1) Or: „who remained." 

2) Or: „took," or ^picked out." 

3) Lit. „he surpassed the king before." 

Temne-Fabeln. 



— 98 — 

Chapter V. 
Proverbs. 

The following ones were met with by the aulhor: — 

1. As'ani Ira wop ko, lit. ,,The state of having set the 
teelh on edge holds him," = „One's teeth are set on edge." 
Sense: „A burned child dreads the fire." Or somewhat like: 
„ Bought wit is best." Or: „One learned wit." Or like the 
Germ, proverb: „Durch Schaden wird man klug." Thus if for 
instance one goes to a place, of which he was told before that 
some evil will befall him there; but still goes, and the evil, 
which lie before scorned at, comes upon him, on his return he 
may say: as'ijni tra wop-mi; and if asked to go to such a place 
again, he will refuse to do so by saying: I ko he ri, as'ani tra 
wop-mi, „1 do not go there, I learned wit." 

2. Mer, pa rohkat, pa wosi; lit. „Swallow, it is bitter, it is 
dry." Sense: Take a thing patiently, however trying it may be." 
Or like the Germ, proverb: „Was ich nicht andern kann, nehtn' 
ich geduldig an." 

Note. The pronominal form pa, as used with the verb wosi, 
which is the long form of wos, „get dry, be dry," and which, 
therefore, according to analogy ought to be o; can only be 
accounted for on the ground that it is used with a proverb; 
where greater liberty is allowed with regard to the form of 
words, than in other common language. Another reason for 
which this form seems to be used, is to make it agree with 
the form of the preceding pronoun. The short form of wosi 
could not have been used here, because it is a positive 
proposition; but wos has the sense of „get dry"; only in 
negative propositions it has also the sense of „be dry". See 
the Note after wos, v. n. in the Vocabulary. 

For the better understanding of this proverb it may be 
observed, that rohkat has reference to the acerb taste, which 
unripe fruit has (as unripe limes), which makes it very un- 
pleasant to swallow; and wosi refers to dry food (as dry 
rice), which will not go down the throat so easily, as when 



— 99 — 

moistened with palaver-sauce, as this is made lubricous by 
a vegetable called ocra by the Liberated Africans in Sierra- 
Leone, which forms one of its ingredients. 

3. Serie Tsempi o las am-bal ka-tserap; lit. „Senge the 
Wise pxceeded kings in wisdom." Sense: „Thou art wiser than 
I, I will not contend with thee." 

Note. Senge is a fabulous person, said to have lived in the 
first world, and to have been greatly renowned on account 
of his wisdom. (Cf. the word tsempi, adj. in the Yocab.). 

4. Ak'or ka-fot ka tana he ah-kapatr; lit. „The empty belly 
(stomach) is no match for the chest." Sense: „A man cannot 
work well without eating." 

5. Telma Mydu'i o bentr a-tsik ka-tas; lit. „A loquacious 
person (a babbler) hinders strangers from going on;" i. e. „he 
must talk to them before they go on." 

6. Far-far o yi he kotsine; lit. „Making far-far does not loose 
itself," or: „One making far-far does not loose himself," or: „does 
not make himself free." Or: „lhe far-far does not loose himself." 

7 o o 

Note 1. This proverb is taken from the catching of a bird 
in a trap. It often happens that a bird is caught by one 
of its feet only; if so, it will struggle hard to get loose; 
but the more it struggles, the more it will be entangled. 
While thus struggling it makes a noise by the flapping of 
its wings resembling the sound of far-far, whence this word 
is taken; the sense of which is that a man will not free 
himself from a difficulty by much struggling. 

Thus if one has a palaver at the court, and then wants 
to talk again and again without being called upon to do so, 
thinking that by so doing he will extricate himself from his 
difficulty; one of the old men at the court, or the king, may 
say to him: „ Far-far o yi he k6tsine." 

Note 2. As to the form of this word, it is either an adjec- 
tive, when w'uni, „a person" is to be understood; or it 
might be a name for an individual of that class of persons, 
who behave in this wav as stated abone. If it is taken as 



1) See the word Modu in the Vocabulary, as also Telma. 

7* 



— 100 — 

an abstr. noun in o-, we must suppose the prefix to be 
dropped; but it may be observed here, that the term far-far 
was otherwise only met with as an adverb in connection 
with the verb yo, „make," used in reference to a bird 
caught in a trap, which struggles to get loose. (Cf. the Note 
at the 8 Ul . the proverb below.) 

7. Ma bar gbo tsimne, ma tra bar sap; lit. „TLe more thou 
struggles!, the more thou wilt be caught." The sense of this 
is much the same with the preceding one. The more a person 
struggles to extricate himself from a palaver at the Bare, or 
Court-house, by talking much and passionate]} ; the more he will 
get entangled in it, by his incautious and unguarded expressions. 

8. Trama kadi o gbip he bom-an; lit. „To stand ahead does 
not catch a woman; 1 ' or: „The being first does not etc.;" or: 
„One being first does not catch a woman;" or: „A being first 
does not catch a wnnan," that is the one who asks first for 
a woman to marry her, does not always get her. Sense: ,.He 
who hurries for a thing will miss i! ; but he who takes time, 
will get it." Or something like: „Nothing good is done in a 
hurry." Or like: „Hasten slowly fair and softly goes far in a 
day." Or like the Germ, proverb. „Eile mit Weile." 

Note. As regards the form trama kadi, the greater part of 
what has been stated about the form far-far in the 6 th . pro- 
verb above, applies also to this: Trama kadi is either to 
be taken as an abstr. noun with the prefix o-, which, in 
that case, we must suppose to be dropped here; or it is to 
be looked upon as a verbal adjective, when w'uni may be 
understood. The latter supposition seems to be the correct 
one. The form trama kadi might possibly be an Infinitive 
absolute, in which case the pronoun o would be the irrela- 
tive or impersonal one. See the Preface § 20. 

9. Ah-kil o bentr a-mera gbantane; or: Pa Kil o bentr a- 
mera 1 ) gbantane; 2 ) lit. „The ground-pig prevents a mind spread- 
ing itself," that is „hinders an agreement, or „a harmony of mind." 



1 1 Or: „plan, design." 

2) Or: „ making itself known," or: „ diffusing itself." 



101 



Sense: „He who works in secret (as Ihe ground-pig does under 
the ground), prevents unity, being intent upon, by secret machi- 
nations, to sow the seed of disunity among those, who were 
likely to become of one mind about a thing or matter." 

10. trand o-polo; o rak-rak, kere o Dakar; lit. „He is 
like a European; he is of a delicate constitution, yet he is 
strong." This may be spoken in reference to a person, who 
is of a delicate health, but nevertheless able to do a great deal; 
because they say that Europeans in Africa are in general of 
delicate health, but ye! able to accomplish a great deal in war 
and also otherwise. 



Part H 



Some Specimens 



the Author? own Temne Compo: 
Translati<;»:.- 



Chapter I. 
Colloquial Phrases. 

1. Salutations. 

a) On first meeting a person in the forenoon, or about noon, 
the usual salutations are as follows: 

A. Kori-'u, Pa! (Ya! Wan!) A. „I salute thee, Sir! (Madam! 

Child!)" 

B. Amba! Kori-'u, Pa! (Ya! B. „Very well!') 1 salute thee. 

Wan!) Sir! (Madam! Child!)" 

A. Tro pe-e? A. „How is it?" or „What] 

or: ( news? - ' or: 

Tro pa \i-e? ) „How art thou?" ) 

or: or: 

Tro pe-mu-e? „How art thou?" 

B. Ail aii! Muno, tro pe-e? B. „So so! Thou, how art 

thou?" or: 
„Tolerablv well! Thou, how 
etc.?" 
or: or: 

Tr'el 6 tr'ei! Muno, tro „Nothing but trouble! Thou, 

pe-e? how art thou?" 

or: or: 

baki gbo! Muno, tro „lt is but hard! Thou, how 

pe-e?" art thou?" or: 

„Only trouble! Thou, how 
art thou?" 
or: or: 

Tr'el 6 tr'ei tra vi he! Mu- „Ver t y well! 2 ) Thou, how 

no, tro pe-e? art Ihou?" 



1) Or: „ Thank you! I etc.!" 

2) Lit. „ There is nothing the matter!" 



— 106 — 

A. An dira-i ? or: Ma dira-i? „Hast lliou slept well?" 

B. Yao, I dira. Muno, ma „Yes, I did sleep well. 

dira-i? Thou, didst thou sleep well?" 

b) If a person is not well he may say: 

B. De, I dira he; ra-tril ra B. „No, I did nol sleep; I am 

baki-mi tenon. very ill to day." 

A. Ko bahsa-mu-e? A. „\Vhat hurts thee?" or: 

„What pains thee?" 

B Ra-bomp-ra-mi ra bah. or: B. „My head aches." or; 
Ra-bomp ra bah-mi. or: „The head pains me." or: 

Ma-der-ma-mi ma bah be. „My skin hurs me all over." 

or: or: 

I soko wonane. ,A had fever all nigh!." 

A. Ma ba tra ten e-trol. A. ,,Thou must look for medi- 

cine." 

B. Yao, I ko ten-yi. B. „Yes, 1 go to look for it." 

A. Re man ko-e? A. „ Where art thou going to?" 

B. 1 ko ro-k'or. or: B. „I go to the farm." or: 
I ko ro-petr. „1 go to town." 

c) On parting they may say : 

A. Mam piaV-6, Pa! (Ya!) A. „Let us live (be) well all 

day, Sir! (Madam!)" or: 
„Goodbye,Sir! (Madam!)" 

B. Amba! Mam piaY-6, Pa! B. ..Very well! 1 ) Let us live 

(Ya!) (be) well all day, Sir! 

(Madam!)" or: „ Very well! 
Goodbye, Sir! (Madam!)" 



1) Or: „Thank you! Let us etc.!" or „ Thank you! Good 
live etc.!" 



— 107 — 

d) If it is toward evening, one does not say: Mam 
piar'-O, etc.! but: 

A. Man dfra-6, Pa! (Ya!) A. „Let us sleep well, Sir! 

(Madam!)" or: 
„Good night, Sir! (Madam!)" 

B. Amba! Man dira-6. Pa! B. „Very well! 1 ) Good night, 

(Ya!) Sir! (Madam!)" or: 

„Very well! 1 ) Let us sleep 
well, Sir! (Madam!)" 

e) If one has met a person already in the earlier part of the 

day, and happens to meet him again, he does not use the 

same salutation: Kori-'u, etc.! but: 

A. Pane-mu, Pa! (Ya!) or: A. „I have met thee, Sir! 
Pane-mu-6, Pa! (Ya!) (Madam!)" 

B. Amba! Pane-mu, Pa! (Ya!) B. ,, Very well! 1 have met thee, 

Sir! (Madam!)" 

A. Am piar'-i? or: A. „Hast thou been well?" or: 
Ma piaV-i? „Hast thou lived well?" 

B. Yao, I piaV o-tan! B. „Yes, 1 have been pretty 

well!" 

f) To one who just returned from a journey, or to a stranger 
just arrived, the salutation is : 

A. Sen-6, Pa! (Ya!) or: ) 

, \ A. „\\elcome, Sir! Madam!." 

Sene-6, Pa! (Ya!) S 

or: or: 

Sen-6 ! Sen-6, Pa! (Ya!) or:, „ Welcome! Welcome, Sir! 

Sene! Sene-6, Pa! (Ya!) i (Madam!)" 

O-tem, sen-6! „Sire, welcome!" 

B. Amba! K6ri-'u, Pa! (Ya!) B. „Very well! 1 ) 1 salute thee, 

Sir! (Madam!)" 
A. Bo ma yefa-i? A. „ Where doe.st thou come 



from?' 



1) Or: „Thank you! etc.!" 



108 

B. I yefa ro-Bake-Lokg. B. „1 came from Porl-Loko." 

or: or: 

I yefa ro-Kamp. „1 came from Freetown ." 

gi If one sneezes, they say: 

A. Sen-e! A. „God bless thee!" Germ. 

„Zur Genesting!" 

B. Amba! B „Very well!" or: „Thank 

you!" 

h) If one visits a sick person, he addresses him thus: 

Seke-o! or: * „I am sorry!" or: * 

Seke 6! J „I pity thee!" S 

or : or : 

Seke-6! Seke!. „I am very sorry!" or: » 

Sgke-o! Seke'.i „I pity thee very much!" J 

or: or: 

Woi! Trank gbo, 1 ) Pa! (Ya!) „Alas! Be but quiet, Sir! 

or: (Madam!)" or: 

Woi! Woi! Ma tru ra-tru, Pa! „Alas! Alas! Thou art ill in- 

(Ya!) or: deed, Sir! (Madam!)" or: 

Woi! Woi, Pa! (Ya!) Ma tru „Alas! Alas, Sir! (Madam!) 

ra-tru! 2 ) Thou art ill indeed!" 

i) If they want to show their sympathy with one, or to condole 
with one on the death of a near relative, they say: 

Trank gbo,') Pa! (Ya!) „Be but quiet. Sir! (Madam!) 

or: or: 

Trahk gbo!') Trank gbo, Pa! „Be but quiet! Be but quiet, 

(Ya!) or: Sir! (Madam!)" or. 

Woi! Woi! Trank gbo, Pa! „Alas! Alas! Be but quiet, Sir! 

(Ya!) (Madam!)" 



1) Lit. „Be but silent, Sir! (Madam!)" 

2) Or: Ma tru tra-tsen ! „Thou art ill truly!" or: „in 
truth!" 



— 109 — 

j) If one goes on a journey, he may have to tell compliments 
from others; as one would say to one going to Port-Loko: 

Namina Modu 6, (I) kori-ko; „Tell Namina Modu and Ali 
Ali Bondo 6, (I) kori-ko. Bondo how do you do for 

me." l ) 
Lit. „As to Namina Modu, sa- 
lute him; as to Ali Bondo. 
salute him." 

k) One coming from Port-Loko might say to one: 

A. Namina Modu o kori-mu. A. „Namina Modu salutes thee." 

B. Amba! Amba! B. ,.Very well! Very veil!" 2 ) 

1) Or on meeting the messenger one would ask him: 

A. Namina Modu o yi ri-i? A. ..Is Namina Modu there?" 

B. yi ri; o kori-mu. B. „He is there ; he salutes thee." 
•A \mba! A. ..Very well!" Or: „Thank 

o 

you!" 

m) If an aged person, or one of superior rank is addressed, 
the salutation is: 

A. O-tem, kori-'u! or: K6ri-'u. A. .,Sir. 1 salute thee!" 
0-tem! or: or: 

O-tem baki, kori-'u! „Sire, I salute thee!" 

Kori-'u, bom! 3 ) or: „I salute thee, Madam!" oi : 

Bom, kori-'u! 4 ) „Madam, I salute thee!" 

n) If an aged person, or a superior, speaks to one. and the 

person addressed does not distinctly hear, what he said, 

he says: 

Tro ma pa-e? or. „Ho\\ doest thou say?" or: 

Ko r'aka-e? or: „What is it?-' or: 



I) Or: „Salute N. M. aud A. B." 

2 1 Or: „Thank you! Thank you!" 

3) Or: K6ri-'u, o-bom! 

4) Or. O-bom, kori-'u! 



— 110 — 

Pa? or Pa-i? „Sir?" 

Ya? or Ya-i? or Na? „Mam?" or „Madam?" 

o) In sending one's compliments to a gentleman by his domestics, 
one may say to them: 

Kori Pa-n! or: , „Salute the Master!" or: » 

Kori Pa-ah! J „Remember me to thy Master!") 

Kori Ya-'ri! or: * „Salute the Mistress!" or: \ 

Kori Ya-ah ! > „Remember me to thy Mistress!") 

p) If the Plural is to be expressed, the forms are as follows: 

K6'i-nu, Pa-na! „1 salute you, Sirs!" 

K6'i-nu, Ya-na! • „1 salute you, Madams!" 

K6'i-nu, a-fet! „I salute you, children!" 

Mam piar' nan-6, Pa-na! „Good b t ye, Sirs!" 

Mam piar' nan-6, Ya-ha! „Good bye, Madams!" 

Man dira nan-6, 1 ) Pa-na! „Good night, Sirs!" 

Man dira nan-6, Ya-na! „Good night, Madams!" 

Tro pe nan-e? „How are ye?" or „How do 

ye do?" 
Pane-nu, Pa-ha! „1 have met you, Sirs!" 

Pane-nu, Ya-ha! „1 have met you, Madams!" 

Sen nan-o! „ Welcome ye!" or „ Welcome 

to you!" 
Seke-nah-o! or: , „l am sorry lor you!" or: j 

Seke nah-o! J „1 pity you!" » 

Sen nan! „God bless you!" Germ. „Zu 

eurer Genesung!" 
Sen mih-o! Sen nan-o! „Ye are verv welcome!" Lit. 

„Welcomeye! Welcome ye!" 

2. Of Worship. 

A. Man der nan ramne K'uru- A. „Let us pray to God." or: 
masaba. „Let us worship God." 



1) Lit. „Let us sleep ye, etc.!" 



Ill 



or: 

Ma len'sir nan K iirumasaba 

B. Man kg ro-misidi. 

A. Kar-mi, 1 tsi karane ah-reka- 

'a-mi. 

B. Tsimone ton lemp. 

A. Miing, ma trara karah-i? 

B. 1 trara k'in k'in. 

or: 
Aiiko, I trara o-tan. 

A. Ma lra>a karan tra-tenme-i? 

a o 

B. Ah, 1 trara o-tan. 

A. Ma trara ama-len ma-temne- 

i? 

B. An, 1 trara-ha gbarah. 

A. Ma tral atra-ramne rok'or-i ? 

O O ~ 

B. I tral k'in k'in; kere I tral 

aka-ramne ka o-Rabu gbar- 
ah. 

A. An-reka na K'uru, ma botar- 

ni-i? 

B. An, 1 bylar-hi tahka be; ah- 

reka ahe ha tas e-reka e- 
lom be. 

A. O-poto o gbalr-su ka-wandi 

ka-ffno tenon. 

B. Ah, o trori-su ar'im ra K'uru 

tra-tsen. 



or. 

„Lp' us praise God bv sing- 
ing." 
B. „Let us go to Church." 

A. „Wait me, I will bring my 

book with me." 

B. „Make great haste then." 

A. „Thou, canst thou read?" 

B. „I know single (words)." ') 

or: 
„Yes, I know a little." 

A. ,. Canst thou readTemne?" 2 j 

B. „Ves, I can a little." 

A. „Doest thou know theTemne 

hymns?" 
B „Yes, I know them well." 

A. „Doest thou understand the 

meaning' of the prayers?" 

B. „I understand a word now 

and then; 4 ) but I under- 
stand the Lord's prayer 
perfectly." 5 ) 

A. „As to the book of God, 

doesl thou like it?" 

B. , : Yes, 1 like it very much; 

this book exceeds all oilier 
books." 

A. „The white man gave us a 

good address to day." 

B. „Yes, he shows us the word 

of God in truth." 



1) Lit. „I know one one." 

2) Lit. „Doest thou know to read Tenme?" 

3 1 Lit. „I)oest thou understand the pr. in the inside (within V" 

4) Lit. „I understand one one, etc." 

5) Or: kere ka-ramne ka o-Rabu, I tral-ki gbarah; „but 
as to the Lord's prayer, I perfectly understand it." 



112 



A. Tenon kia o lapso gbaia-su 

ka-wandi; o kalane so ton 
ka an-tof, ana 'a komar- 
ko, traka kal bakasne ma- 

- 7 o o ~ 

der. 

B. Kanko K'riru o mar-su tra 

wop ar'im, ara o poh 
trori-su e-Ioko e-lal; kama 
sa tse yi gbo a-tral; kere 
kama sa yi so a-yO na atra 
sa poii tral! 



A. „To day be preached the 

last time to ns; he returns 
now again to his native 
country, ') to recruit his 
health again." 

B. „May God help us to hold 

the word, which he has 
shown us many times; 
that we ma\ not be hearers 
only; but that we may 
also be doers of what we 
have heard!" 



3. Of the School. 

A. Be man ko-e, w'ahet? A. „ Where art thou going to, 

child?" 

B. 1 kone ka o-karamoko tra B. „I go to the schoolmaster 



takas ka-karan a-reka. 

A. Trori-mi ah-reka ana ma 

takas-e. 

o o 

B. Kali-hi; ah-reka ahe ah-reka 

o * 

ha K'uru hah. 
A. Trori-mi od'er, ro ma k^i- 

rah-e. 
B Kar-mi, I t.si lafti a-bopar; 

kali od'er owo I karah. 

A. Ma takas ka-gbal-i? 

o o o o O 

B. De, I ta takas he ki o-fino. 



to learn to read a book." 

A. .,Show me the book which 
thou art learning." 

B. „See it; this book is God's 
book." 2 ) 

A. „Show me the place, where 
thou doest read." 

B. „Wait me, 1 will turn over 
the leaf; see the place 
where 1 read." 

A. „Hast thou learned to write?" 

B. „No, 1 did not learn it well 

yet." 

A. Pa trul he, be ma memar- A. „lt will not be hard, if thou 

ki o-fino. doest try it well." 

B. 1 lane-tsi; kere I trap gbo B. „1 believe it; but I only just 

ras. began." 



1) Lit. „to the country where they bare him." 

2) Lit. „this book the book of God that." 



— 113 — 



A. Ma ba k'afri, de d'uba, de 

k'upo-i? 

B. An, 1 ba ey'etr eve. 

A. Ma takas ka-len ma-leh ma- 

temne-i? 

B. An, I trara ka-len-na. 

o ' o 

A. Ma trara ka-lom-i? 

o o - 

B. De, 1 trap gbo ras tra takas 

ka-lom. 
A. Basar o-fino, kama ma trara- 
ki lemp. 



A. „Hasl !hou paper, and ink, 

and a pen?" 

B. „Yes, I have these things." 

A. „Hast thou learned to sing 

Temne hymns?" 

B. „Yes, I can sing them." 

A. „Doest thou know arith- 

metic?"') 

B. „No, 1 only just began with 

learning arithmetic." 
A. „Continue (persevere) with 
well, that thou mayest 
learn it soon." 



4. Of the House. 



A. K6ri-'u, Pa! 

B. Amba! K6ri-'u! Ma yema 

won-i ? 

A. Ah, I tsi won. 

B. De vira, kali ka-wan ka yi 

%J 7 Q O O v 

ri. 

A. M'amo, o-tem; I tsi yira 

and ka am-mesa raygr. 

B. Tse yira ro-rare rayer, a- 

fef a-baki ha yi ri. 

A. Tra ba he mi tr'el, o-lrahk 

gbali he mi wop. 

B. Ma yema fanta ro-tenta, ta- 

lom ka ah-gbata-i? 



A. „1 salute thee, Sir!" 

B. „Thank you! I salute thee! 

Wilt thou come in?" 

A. „Yes, I shall come in." 

B. „Come sit down, look there 

is a chair." 

A. „Thank you, Sir; 2 ) I shall 

sit down here near the 
table." 

B. „Do not sit near the door, 

there is a strong draught 
there." 

A. „lt is no matter to me, I 

shall not catch cold." 

B. „Doesl thou wish to lie down 

in the hammock, or on 
the mat?" 



1 Lit. „Doest thou know counting V" 
2) Or: „Much obliged to you, Sir; etc." 

Temne - Phrasen. 



114 — 

A. „No, 1 do not yet feel tired." 

B. „Look a sofa, 1 ) if thou doest 
wish to lie down a little." 

A. „No, 1 only wish to sit down 
in the piazza." 
B. Be ma yema r'aka, t»ela B. „lf thou doest want any 

ow'ahet. thing, call the child." 

A. M'amo, Pa! I tsi yo-tsi. A „Thank you, Sir! 1 shall 

do it." 



A. De, pa ta lela he mi. 

B. Kali a-bilih , be ma yema 

fanta o-tah. 
A. De, I yema gbo yira ro- 
gbantan. 



5. Of Eating and Drinking 
A. De yira ro-mesa. A 



or: 
Man gbetgbetne ka ka-di. 
B. Ma ramne K'uru tra rdba B. 
ey'etr-'e-su e-di. 

A. Kali r'a ra-boti-di, a-nak-6, A. 

a-saka-6. 

B. 1 bdtar he a-saka. yer mi B. 

o-sem o-toJs. 

A. Ma yema o-sem o-nakat-i? A. 

B. De, I tsi di an-troko a- B. 

patr. 3 ) 

A. Ma bdtar he ka-di ka-lop- A. 

o - o _ o r 

i ? 

B. De, I di he ka-lop. B. 
A. Mina, dor ra ba-mi, 1 tsi A. 

di o-sem o-salkar, de ma- 
lel. or: 



„Come sit down to the table." 
or: 

„Let us recline to the eating. " 

„Let us pray God to bless 
our food." 

„See there is something de- 
licious to eat, rice, and 
palaver sauce." 

„1 do not like palaver-sauce, 
give me roast beef." 

„ Doest thou want fried beef?" 

„No, I shall eat of the stew- 
ed fowl." 2 ) 

„Doest thou not like to eat 
of the fish?" 

„No, I do not eat fish." 

„As for me, I am hungry, 1 ; 
I shall eat salt meat and 
beans." or: 



1) That is a sofa made of mud. 

2 Or: „boiled fowl." 

3) Or: owq 'a patr, „which they stewed." 

4) Lit. „hunger has me." 



— 115 

Mi'na, I tsi di o-.sem g-kal, „As for me, I shall eat 

de ka-lop ka-kul. broiled beef, and smoked 

fish." ') 
B. Yentra-mi am'er, de tra- B. „Hand me the salt and the 
gbehbe. pepper." 

A. Am bdtar e-y6ka, de e-ku- A. „Doest thou like eassada, 

i? 2 ) and Mandingo yams?" 

B. An, I bdtar-yi taiika be. B. „ Yes, Hike them very much." 

A. Kali a-lis a-lom; ma yema A. „See there is another knife ; 

ka-bep-i? doest thou want a spoon?" 

B. De, I yema he ka-bep. B. „No, I do not want a spoon." 

A. Ma vema mun ma-ber-i? A. „Doest thou wish to drink 

o f 

liquor?" 

B. De, I tsi mun m'antr. B. „No, 1 shall drink water." 

Chapter II. 

Addresses delivered to the Temnes. 

1. 

On John 14, 6. 

„Yisua o pa ronoh: Mine yi ar'on, de atra-tseh, de an-nesam: 
w'uni 6 w'uni o tana he der ka o-kas, tambe ka ka tra-ka-mi." 
Yon 14. 6. 

I pon der and tra trori-nu ar'on' da-futia r'in, ara K'uru o 
kane-su ka ar'im-r'on; pakaiife K'uru o yema kama a-fam be 
d'er 6 d'er ha trara ar'oii are, ha tral ar'im-r'oh. Tsa K'uru o 
botr w'uni ka 'ra-ru are, kama o lehki-ko, kama o yikis owd 
bempa-ko. Traka tsi K'urumasaba mo o bempa w'uni, o bempa- 
ko o-fino de o-tot; tr'el 6 tr'ei Ira-las tra yi he rohoh. Ktjre 
w'uni o lasar an-toh ha K'urumasaba, tsia ba-tsi ha kanta ar'on' 

o o 

da ro-rianna, ka ra-fi ra won ka 'ra-ru be; paka.sife a-fam be ha 
yi a-las, ha be ha poh sake a-gbeha ha K'uru ro-mera. Kere 



1) Or: „dried fish." 

2) Or: ma-nel-i? „couutry-yams ?" 



— 116 — 

hali w'lini g lasar an-tgh na K'iiru, K'uru o bdtar-kg halisa, o 
bgtar he ka-nah'-kg ka ah-fgsa na ra-fi, de ka ah-fgsa na Selani; 

bana-ko i-neT, kg g kanli r'on' da-lgm ro-rianna. 

Ka an-ton na Miisa K'uru g pa hg: Be ma yg at'rei atse 
ma Ira k;ili. Kere ka-rarah ka mg w'iini g poh lasarne, g ba 
he sg a-fgsa Ira }0 ma-trel ma K'urumasaba, kama pa tesane-kg; 
am-mera na w'uni na yi a-las hali: w'uni 6 w'iini o yi he gwg 
gbali wop an-ton ha K'uru g-fino. Traka tsi w'uni 6 w'uni g 
gbali he ki'si , g gbali he kg ro-rianna tnika ra-bomp ra ma-yos- 
mgh ma-fino. Ma-yos-ma-su ma-fino ma gbali he kanti riai^na 
tra trassu ; K'uru g trara-tsi g-fino. soh-su an-tgh-hgh kama 
sa nahk glarah ra-yai-ra-su, de ma-las-ma-su ; kama sa trara sa 
ba he a-fosa tra wop an-tgh-hgh g-fino, ma pa bgne-kg, de kama 
sa nahk sa gbali he won ro-rianna traka 'ma-ygs-ma-su; tsa 
a-fiim be ha poh lasar an-tgh ha K'uru e-lgkg e-laT. Tsiah g 
kanti r'on' da-lgm tra trassu ka ka-sgmpane de ka 'ra-fi ra Yisua 
gw'an-k'gh gbeh. Ar'dh are ra yi ar'dn' da i-nel. Sya be sa 
yi a-fam a-las rodi ka K'lirumasaba, w'lini 6 w'uni g yi he g-fino 
de o-tratseh rodi ka K'uru; kere sya be sa gbali kisi ka ar'dh 
are, ara K'Uru o poh trori-su ka ar'im-r'gh tsia yi mg hg ye 
ka ka-lane Yisua. W'dni 6 w'uni gwg yema der ka K'uru ka 
r'on' da-lgm, tsia yi hg traka ama-ygs-mgh ma-fino gbeh, g tana 
he der rghgh tabdna, g tra dinne gbo. W'uni lgm g \'\ he, g- 
nabi g-lgm g yi he, gwg tiina mar-nu tra kg ro-rianna, tambe 
Yisua gw'an ka K'lirumasaba. Kong yi atra-tseh, kgng yefa ka 
k'uru tra trgri-su ama-selg ma K'iiru g-kas-k'gh, de traka fi 
tra trassu. 

Wiini 6 w'lini, g-nabi 6 nabi, gwg mg Ise trgri-nu atse, atni 

1 poh trgri-nu, g trgri-nu ra-yem, kg g pa he tra.tseh. Wiini 
6 w'uni gwg tse lane gw'an ka K'lirumasaba, g beka K'urumasaba 
ra-yem, pakasife g lane he at'amasere , atra K'iiru g poh sgh-su traka 
gw'an-k'gh. K'iiru o kane-su ka ar'im-r'gh fgg tra sgh-su a-hesama- 
tabana traka ra-bomp ra Yisua g\wn-k'gh gbo son. W'uni 6 w'Qni 
gwd lane gw'an ka K'urumasaba, g tra sgtg a-hesam a-tabana; 
kere w'uni 6 w'lini gwg tse lane gw'an ka K'urumasaba, g gbali 
he sotg a-hesam a-tabana. K'iiru, g-kas, g som gw'an-k'gh, kama 



— 117 — 

bdni ara-rfi; pakasife o-maleika 6 maleika o tana he su mar, 
O-nabi 6 nabi o tana he su mar; w'uni 6 w'uni o tana he wop 
an-toh ha K'riru o-fino. Mahamadu kon' so o lasar an-toh ha 
K'uru, ma a-fam a-lom na poh yo; Visua kon' son o ba he tr'el 
6 tr'el tra-las. An-nabi be, aha K'uru o poh som ka a-fam 
tapah ha-hane so ha ba ka-ki'si traka ra-bomp ra Yisua, na ba 
ka-soto ka-lapar ka ma trel-ma-nah ma-las ka ma-tsir ma Yisua; 

o — — r o u 

pakasife w'uni 6 w'uni o ba ma-trel ma-las rodi ka K'uru 
Mahamadu o ba ka-kisi traka ra-bomp ra Ylsua gbo son. Ylsua 
koh' son o ba he tr'el 6 tr'el tra-las . pakasife o yi ow'an ka 
K'lirumasaba. 

Mo K'Uru kono-konone o poh botr ar'dh are tra trassu, sa 
ba ka-lane fo ar'oh are ra beki-su, sa ba ka-wop ar'on' da-tsi, 
ka sa gbali trara tra-tseh, fo K'uru o pensa he w'uni 6 w'uni, 
owo der roi'ioh ka ar'dh are, pakasife K'uru o tana he yema. 
W'iini 6 w'uni owd lane fo Yisua o yi ow'an ka K'uru, K'uru 
o tra bdtar-ko; kere w'uni 6 w'uni owd pensa, fo Yisua q yi 
ow'an ka K'urumasaba, owd pensa, fo Yisua o poh der ka ra- 
ru tra bani-su, ow'uni owe o gbena K'uru, ko K'uru o bahsar- 
ko, o tra sdm'ra-ko ro-yahannama. Kere w'uni 6 w'uni owd 
lane Yisua, o ba ka-wop so an-toh-hoh, aha o poh tidri-su ka 
ar'im-r'oh, kia yi ho ka am-beibal; pakasife ak'afa ake gbo son 
kia yi gbo ak'afa ka K'uru. 

Yisua o kane-su fo sa ba ka-bdtar K'uru ka am-mera-'a su 
be, de ka ah-fdsa-'a-su be; fo sa ba Ira memar, kama sa yerane 
atr'ei tra-fino, alra Yisua o sdtona-su ka ra-fi-r'on. W'uni 
w'uni owd yema K'uru Ira ba-ko i-nei. o gbali hi solo tiiika ra- 
bomp ra Yisua gbo son. K'uru o tra malane aka-ramne-ka-nu 
ka ah'es ha Yisua gbo; be na ramne he K'uru ka anSs ha Visua, 
K'uru o s^'o he tra trala-nu. na ramne gbo ka-tsih Iral. 

A-fam na poh wura s'on' tra-lai traka der ka K'uru. A-lom 
ha tens w'uni, taldm o-nabi traka kasa-na ratrdh ; a-lom su ha 
nane na gbali der ka K'dru tra 'ma-yos-ma-nah ma- lino, de 
tra ka-wop-ka-hah a-sum. Kere ar'on' d'in ra yi ri gbo; Yisua 
kdno yi ar'on' da-tratsen, ara ma gbali kere a-fam ro-rianna. 
Kdno-kdnone o pa ho: W'Uni 6 w'iini o gbali he der ka K'uru, 



— 118 - 

o-kas, tambe ka ka-tra ka-mi. Sya be sa ba tra nasi ama-trei- 
ma-su ma-las ka ma-tsir ma Yisua; sa ba tra lane-ko traka ka- 
lapar ama-trel-ma-su ma-las be. O-ruhu 1 ) ka Kuru o ba tra 
saki e-mera-'e-su. W'uni lorn o yi he owo tana yona-su araa- 

- - K O V 

trel ame tambe Yisua. Traka tsi n'es a-lom ha yi he, a-fosa 
a-lom ha yi he, aha gbali fiitia-su, tambe Yisua son. R'aka 
6 r'aka ra tana he kere-nu ro-rianna ka-rarah ka ra-fi, tambe 
ama-lsir ma Yisua , ama o poh loh traka 'ma-trel-ma-su ma-las. 
Sya be sa ba ma-trel ma-las ma-lal; kere K'uru o selo tra lapar- 
su traka ra-bomp ra Yisua, be sa nemtene-kg traka tsi. Be sa 
yema he K'uru tra lapar-su traka ra-bomp ra Yisua, o gbali he 
tsera-su ama-trel-ma-su ma-las koko, sa gbali he won ro-rianna 
tahkah 

A-mane-'a-mi! I nemtene-nu, tie na lane ama-yos-ma-nu 
traka ka-fiitia-nu; tse na lane o-nabi traka ka-fiitia-nu, ha gbali 
he futia-nu kl 6 ki! Kere lane nan Yisua son traka ka-futia-nu. 
I trara fo na ta lane he Yisua traka ka-futia-nu; kere trap nan 
tenon tra yo-tsi; trohkar nan rohoh lemp, tani ah-loko a-fino 2 j 
ha tas tra trannn, tani na fi ka ma-trel-ma-nu ma-las, na dinne 
tabana. Be Yisua o nasi ama-trel-ma-nu ma-las ka ma-tsir-m'oh, 
na tra ba ma-tofal ka e-mera-'e-nu, pa tra fol-nu tr'ei, na tra 
yi ma a-fam, aha poh wur n'imisa na-bana, na gbali he so nesa 
ra-fi. Hsli na trara nan na tra fi aninah, na gbali he nesa, 
p;ikasife na trara. na tra ba ma-bone ma-bana 3 ) ro-rianna ka- 
rarah ka ra-fi. Kere be na lane he Yisua, be na lane Maha- 
madu, be na ramne-ko, na gbali he futi , na tra nesa ra-fi; 
pakasife K'uru o poh trori-su fo rW d'in dia yi ri gbo traka 
a-fam be. O-poto 6, w'iini bi 6, o-y6la 6, o-mone 6, ha be 
ha ba ka-futi traka Yisua ow'an ka K'urumasaba son; ko w'uni 
6 w'uni owo tse lane Yisua gbo son traka fulia-ko, o gbali he 
f vi 1 i tabana, o ba gbo tra ko ro-yahannama. 



1) Or: Ah'umpal ha K'uru ha ba etc. 

2) Or: a-fol-tr'el, „ convenient, seasonable." 

3) Or: ba ma-trama ma-fino, „be in a happy state" = „be 
well off." 



— 119 — 

Me I yefa no ka-lapso , 1 nAne he fo I tsi der so ka an-1of 
ane, pakasife ra-tru ra-baki ra wop-mi. Kere pa tesane Kiiru 
tra kara-mi so ano, de Ira lrori-nu so ar'im ra K'uru! 1 yi ano 
tra-ren tra-lal, I trori-nu ar'on' da Kiiru e-loko e-lal; kere na 
wop he ri, pakasife na botrar he e-mera-'e-nn ka ma-trel ma 
K'uru na botrar e-mera-'e-nu Ira ey'etr ya no-ru. Tsia ba-lsi 
pa ban'sane an-fam, ana pon som-su ano tra trori-nu ar'im ra 
K'uru, ka ha selo he kdma o-poto g yira so re; kere ha \ema 
he nu nol ar'im ra K'uru be, ha tra trel ras w'lini k'in ano tra 
gbalr-nu ka-wandi, be pa yi ho nyah tsempi tra tral ar'im ra 
K'uru, de tra wop-ri so. Ke mine so I tsi der win win tra 
gbaia-nu ka-wandi. Kere 1 tsi yira d'er 6-lom tra k;ili, be pa 
yi an-fam, ana yi ri, na selo Ira malano ar'im ra K'uru, ara me 
ko trori-ha; Isa K'uru o vema kama a-fam be d'er 6 d'er ha 
tral ar'im-r'oh. 

A-mane-'a-mi! 1 nemtenc-nu, be na botar am'umpal-ma-nu, 
lane nan Yisua, wopne-ko nan traka futia-nu! Kanko Kiiru o 
mar-nu tra yo atr'el atse I kane-nu lemp; tani na fi ka "ma-trei- 
ma-nu ma-las, na poh fe tsi yo, tani na dinne labana. Ka-fi 
ra ma der-an tra trassu be, ko be na poh he solo ka-lapar ka 
'ma-trel-ma-nu ma-las ka ka-tra ka Visua. hah ma na yi ano-ru, 
na gbali he futi, na ba ka-dinne labana! Kere be Yisua o poh 
Isera-nu ama-lrel-ma-nu ma-las, na gbali he nesa ra-fi, na gbali 
he nesa ka-rok an-ldhka ka ah-rtVi a-lapso, na tra fi inn ho na 
ko dira, ka na trara fo na tra wur so ka lra-boma-tra-nu ka aii- 
rei a-lapso, na tra ko ro-rianna tra yira ri ka ma-bone ma-bana, 
ama gbali he poh tahkah 6 lahkah. 



On 2 Cur. 5, 19. 20. 
E-mera-'e-su de ar'im ra K'uru ra Irori-su fo K'lirumasaba 
kono mo soh-su ey'elr e-fino be. Ka ka-trap K'uru o bempana 
w'uni e-tof, ko kono mo soh-ras w'uni 6 w'uni a-hesam. K'uru 
o botr ah-lo ha ka-kom-ka-su, de od'er ro 'a komar-su; kono 
mo soh-su r'aka 6 r'aka ara sa ba. Kono mo bene-su ra-tr'ci 
6 tr'el. 



— 120 — 

Ra-bani-ka-su ka 'ra-trar ra setani ka yi ama-pant ma K'iiru. 
Kong wiira as'adka tra bani-su. som ovv'an-k'oii, o reh-kg 
ama-trel-ma-su ma-las be: kg K'iiru g ma lane asadka. atra Yisua 
g kara tra trassu. Yisua g kane e-tetu-y'gh tra tramas arim 
ra-tgt are ka a-fam be. An Ig na-t^i R'Qru g bempa w'uni, 
w'uni g yi g-mane ka R'urumasaba; kere w'uni g lasar an-tgh 
na R'Qru. tsia ba-tsi R'Qru g bari'sar-kg. kg w'uni g nesa R'Qru. 
Ama-las ma w'uni ma lasar ama-mane ka-trgh ka R'Qru de ka- 
trgh ka w'Gni. E-mera-'e-su e la ma-gbena traka R'uru, kg 
R'uru g ban'sar-su traka 'ma-trel-ma-su ma-las. A-fam be 'a 
ebena R'Qru ka e-mera-'e-nan. na yg ma-trei ma-las ma-Iai. 
Rere R'Qru o wiira s'adka. kama kgn' de syah sa mane sg. 
Sya sa gbali he yo kama K'firu de syan sa kal mane : kere 
R'Qru kono gbali yg-tsi. ba-su i-nel. g som Yisua gw'an- 
k'gn owg yokane ma-der, gwg kasa-su ratrgn. de gwg wop an- 
tgn na R'Qru g-fino tra trassu. ka ka-belan-ka-su: pakasife sya 
sa lasar-ni lgkg 6 lgkg. R'Qru g som gw'an-k'gn kama g sgmpane. 
kama g fi: kama R'Qru g gbali su tsera 'ma-trei-ma-su ma-las. 
Yisua kgn' g ba he tr'el 6 trel tra-las. kgn' g sgmpane gbo ka 
ka-belan-ka-su. Yah R'Qru g kala ma-mane ka-trgh ka a-fam 
de ka-trgh-k'gh. yema he su sg ren ama-trel-ma-su ma-las, 
be sa wopne-kg, be sa wop ar'im-r gn. R'uru g selg Ira lapar 
ama-1rei -nia-su ma-las traka ra-bomp ra Yisua. be s§ lane \isua. 
be sa wopne gv'an ka R'uru. 

R'Qru g yema kama kgn' de syan sa kal mane; o tsela a- 
fam be ka ka-san ka e-telu-y'gh, g nemtene-su ka ka-san-ka-han 
kama sa malane ama-mane-m'gh, kama sa lane Yisua. ^isua 
kgng gbali futia-su kgn' son. 

1 poii der rgnii. R'Qru g som-mi rgnu, kama 1 trgri-nu ar'im- 
r'on. Na gbali he katr kere. be na wop he ri , p§kasife na 
trara-ri; na gbali he kane R'Qru ka aii-re'f a-lapsg : ,.1 tr'a he 
nan ar'im-ra-mu-e." R'uru g tra tghkas-nu ka arim, ara 1 trgri- 
nu lgkg 6 lgkg; 1 trgri-nu atra na ba ka-yg, kama na ki'si ; be 
na kisi he. nyah n\a ba-tsi. Sya be sa yi a-fam a-las rodi ka 
R'urumasaba; w'Qni 6 w'uni ka-trgh-ka-nu g pon lasar an-tgh 



— 121 — 

ria K'uru e-loko e-Jai; w'dni 6 w'uni ka-tron-ka-nu o yg ma- 
trel ma-las ma-lai. 

A-mane-'a-mi! Botrar naii am-mera, na ba ra-bei ra-bana ka 
K'Uru. na gbali he ram-ko-e r'aka 6 r'aka ! Kere Yisna kdno 
wop ara-bel-ra-nu, kono gbali ram-ri. be na lane-ko. K'uru o 
selo tra lapar ama-trel-ma-nu ma-las traka ra-bomp ra Yisua. 1 
der ronii ka ah'es ha Yisua de ka ka-belan-k'on, 1 nemtene nu 
ksma na malane ama-mane-m'on. Be na lane Yisua. be na 
malane ka-fnti-k'oh mo ho a-boya . be na vema futi ka 'ma-tsir 
ma Yisna gbo. ama o loh tra trannu be; K'uru o selo tra lapar- 
nu. K'uru o gbali he malane w'uni 6 w'uni. tambe owo mo 
der rohoh ka an'es ha Yisua ow'an k'on. K'uru o pa ho: 
. K •• nan ka 'ra-ru be. tram;.s nah ar'i'm ra-tgl ka a-fam bo. 
W'uni 6 w'uni owo lane, 'a matas-ko. 'i o tra rati; kere w'uni 
6 w'uni owd Ise lane, o tra dinne." Be na basar ka-ts< 
ar'im ra K'uru. na lane be Yisua; K'uru o tra sompa-no ka- 
sompa ka-bana : be na malane he ka-som-ka-mi. na farki ka-som 
ka K'uiumasaba. kg Kiiru o tra som-nu ro-vahannama Ira sompane 
ri tabana tankan. Na ba tra wop ar'im ra K'uru ano-ru; pakasife 
be na poh fi. na ebali he %\op-ri so. K'liru o sgn-su a-loko 
ano-ru gbo traka benene. tra rianna. 

Be o-bai o-lom o vema mar w'iini mono; kere ow'uni Ka- 
tsi o pehsa, o malane fe arim ra o-bai. o farki ama-tot ma o- 
bai: o-bai ka-tsi mo bah'sar he ko-i? Kere K'urumasaba g yema 
soh-nu ara tas r'aka 6 r'aka ara o-lai o gbali son-nu. ^ uni 
6 w'uni Q gbali he lapar ama-trei-ma-nu ma-las: ktjre K'uru o 
selo tra lapar-nu. be na lane Yisua; kere o gbali he lapar-nu 
tambe na lane Yisua ow'an ka K'urumasaba. 

Pakasife K'uru o pa: ..Kone nan ka 'ra-ru be. tramas nan 
ar'im ra-tot ka a-fam be ; u I poh der ronu, 1 poh trei o-kas- 
ka-mi. de ah-mane-'a-mi. de an-tof aha a komar-mi. 1 poh der 
ka an-tof-'a-nu, ro tra-tru-tra-lai tra wop-mi. ro a-poto a-gbati 
ha fi ka der-ka-hah gbo ka an-tof ane; kere Ir'ei o tr'ei tra gbali 



1 Or: p&tar-ko m'antr . ,. baptize him (with water by 
sprinkling;" m§tas is: ^baptize by immersion." 



— 122 — 

he mi bentr; pakasife I yema trgri-nu ar'on' da K'iiru, kama na 
trara-ri, kama na wop-ri, kama na sgtg ma-bone ma-bana ro- 
rianna. 

Be na wop ar'im ra K'uru, ara 1 trori-nu, pa bone-mi hali, 
I tsi miitsi K'uru m'amo traka tsi. Kere be na wop he ar'im 
ra K'iirumasaba, ara 1 trgri-nu lgkg 6 lgkg, nyan nya ba-tsi, 
nyah nya ba ka-wosa-tsi, K'iiru o tra sompa-nu traka tsi. 

R'on' d'in ra yi ri gbo traka futi; r'on' d'in ra yi gbo, ara 
kg ro-rianna; a-fam be na ba tra kot ka ar'on are, am-poto de 
aii-fam a-bi. K'uru o trori-su ar'on are ka ar'im-r'on, ara I 
tramas-nu. K'uru o son fe vv'uni tr'afa tra-ran, kere k'afa k'in 
glio; ka a-fam be 'a ba tra wop ak'afa ake; w'iini 6 w'uni owo 
mo tse wop ak'afa ake. o gbali he ko ro-rianna, o trd dinne gbo, 
K'liru o tra som-ko ro-yahannama tra sompane ri tankan tabana. 
A-lal ka-tron-ka-nu na ma pa ho: ,,An-reka, ana sa ba, nia yi 
ho alukrana. na yi a-fino tra trassu, na beki an-fam a-bi; ka 
ak'afa ka-poto kfa yi ka-fino tra ara-p6to, ka beki am-poto." Pa 
yi he yah. Ah-reka-'a-nu nia yi ho alukrana, de ah-reka a-poto 
e-yi fe win ; kere e peskiane. Alukrana ha trori-nu ar'im ra 
w'uni gbo; kere ah-reka aha 1 kara-nu, ha trori-nu ar'im ra 
K'iiru tra-tsen. K'iiru o gbali he son a-fam e-reka ye-ran e- 
peskiane, ar'im ra K'uru ra yi tra-tsen tankan tabana. W'uni 
o w'uni owo karah ah-reka a-poto de ah-reka ha Mahamadu 
a-mera fino, o gbali trara fo an-reka a-puto ha lasi alukrana; 
ah-reka a-p6to hfa yi gbo ar'im ra K'iiru. 

A-mane-'a-mi ! Botrar nan am-mera! Yisua kono mo lohkas- 
iiu ka an-rei' a-lapsg, be na wop ar'im-r'on 6, be na wop he ri 
6, o tra tohkas-nu! Hali na wop he ar'im-r'on ano-ru, na ba 
tra trama rodi ka Yisua, kama o tonkas w'iini 6 w'iini ka-troh- 
ka-nu. Ak'ala-ka-nu ka trgri he nu alr'eT atse; kere ak'afa ka K'uru 
ka kane-su-tsi, ka kane-su fg Yisua gw'an ka K'iirumasaba o tra 
tohkas-nu ka 1 ) ah-reka-hoii, nia yi ho ka 1 ) am-beibal; pa yi he 
ka ah-reka-'a-nu, hia yi ka ') alukrana. Alukrana ha kane he nu 
fg Yisua g yi gw'an ka K'iirumasaba. Mahamadu g pa fg kgn' 

1) Or: mg etc. 



— 123 — 

bana o tas Yisua; kere o kolone gbo ka-tsin, o yema gbo; K'uru 
o som he ko koko. N'es a-lom na yi he ri, aha gbali fiitia-su, 
tambe ah'es ha Yisua; ko w'rini 6 w'Qni owo mo pensa-ko, o 
tra dinne gbo. 

Mahamadu o tihkar a-fam traka wop ar'im-r'oh, o dif-na be, 
aha tse selo tra wop-ri. Kere K'uru o gbeha atr'el atse, o yema 
he sa tihkar a-fam tra wop ar'im-r'oh; o kane-su gbo: Be n| 
wop ar'i'm-ra-mi, be na lane Yisua, na tra soto ma-bone ma- 
bana ro-rianna; kere be na wop he ar'i'm-ra-mi, be na lane he 
Yisua; na tra dinne gbo, na tra sompane ka an'antr tahkah 
tabana. Yo o pa, kere o tihkar he w'tini 6 w'Qni, mo Mahama- 
du o poh vo tapah. 

Kahko K'uru o mar-nu, kama na tse gbo tral ar'im-r'oh k;>- 
tsih, ara I trori-nu; kere kama na \o-ri so; kama na. won ro- 
rianna, de kama na soto ri ma-trama ma-fino tahkah 6 tahkah. 

3. 

On Jude v. 14. 15. 

Fo a loko ha tra der mo K'uru o tra tonkas a-fam be mo 
ama-yos-ma-hah, K'uru o poh gbal-tsi ka am-mera ha a-fam be. 
Sa nahk a-fam a-lai aha ma yo ma-trei ma-las ma-lal. talom ma- 
trei ma-fino. ha soto he a -ram traka tsi ano-ru; kere ha Ira 
soto-hi ka 'ra-ru ara ma der-e. O-nabi Enok, owo kali pa wgn 
he k^-rarah ka 'ra-fi ra Adam, de ah-fam aha yi ka 'ma-re'i 
ma-tsi, ha trara, fo K'uru o tra rok e-tohka ya a-fam ka ah-rei 
a-lap'so. Enok kono tramas-tsi, o pa ho: „ Kali, o Rabu o mo 
der-e re e-wul e-lal ya am-maleika-hoh tra rok e-tohka ya a- 
fam a-las be traka 'ma-lrei-ma-hah ma-las, ama ha yo;" ko o 
man ah-fam, aha yi ka 'ma-rei ma-tsi, kama ha tubi. fjiok o 
kane-su fo Yisua o Ira der so ka ah-rei a-lap'so. O trori-su 
fo Yisua o tra tsela a-fam be traka tnima ronon rodi, fo o tra 
ram a-fam a-las be mo am'olo ma ama-yos-ma-hah. K-tetu \a 
Yisua be ha pa r'iin r'in, ha kane-su fo sya be sa ba Ira irama 
ka Yisua rodi, kama o roka-su e-tohka. Na kane-su fo \ isua 
kono mo rok an-tohka ha ah-kali de ah-fi. K'uru o yentr ka- 



— 124 — 

rok an-tohka ka ah-rei a-lap'so ka Yisua; pakasife o yi ow'an 
ka w'uni. Kono fi traka a-fam be, ko o tra der so mo ow'an 
ka w'uni ka e-bunt ya k'uru. Enok o kane-su fo o tra der re 
am-maleika-hoh, aha ma paia-ko ka e-bunt ya k'uru. E-wul e- 
lal ha tra tor ka k'uru de kon' tra biindas ah-yiki na ah-rei na- 
tsi, de tra yikis-ko owo trapi-na. Ka-der ka Yisua an-lo na-tsi 
ka tra tas ka-c'.er-k'on ka-trotroko, mo o der tra sake ma-der, 
ile tra sompane tra trassu. 

Sa ba tra botrar am-mera, kama sa benene traka an-rei na- 
tsi , kama sa ban-ko o fino. Yfsua o tra der tra tonkas a-fam 
be, pa yi he tra trori an-yiki-non gben; kere tra rok an-tonka 
na a-fam ka an-tof be. An-fam be ana poii kali ka 'ra-ril are, 
de w'uni 6 w'uni owo 'a tie ta kom ka 'ra-ril are, Yisua o tra 
tsela-na ronon rodi. Am-baki de aii-fet, an-yola de am-mone, 
na be na tra wur ka tra-boma-tra-naii, de ana yi a-kali an-lo 
na-tsi ka an-tof, na be na ba tra trama ka Yisua rodi. tra 
gbengben w'lini 6 w'uni , o tra tunt ama-yos-m'on, o tra naibi 
e-nane e-inahkne ya am-mera-n'on be. An-loko na-tsi ana Yisua 
o mo fetar am-mera, l ) na Ira ko ro-rianna ; kere ana Yisua o 
mo nap, 2 ) na tra bal-na, kama na yefa ro-d'er-k'on kadi. Yisua 
o tra natra aft-fam-non ro-rianna; kere ana tse l^ne-ko, o tra 
fita-na ka an'antr na-tabana. Yisua o tra tonkas a-fam Ira-tsen. 
Be sa fdfar a-fam traka 'ma-trel-ma-nan ma-las na katrne tr'ere. 

o - o u o o 

Kere Yisua kono-konone o tra vvdpa-na t'amasere, o tra trori- 
na ara-^ai ra atr'ere-tra-nafi . o tra naibi ama-yos ma-las, ama 
na vo-e, as'im Ira-las atni na f'of-e, de e-nane e-las eye yi ka 
e-mera-'e-nan ka t'amasere tra tra-tsen, ha na gb^li he pensa. 
E-letu ya Yisua so, ana tram;ir-na ar'im ra K'uru, na tra wura 
t'amasere traka traniian. Yisua owo motonkas-su, o trara od'er 
ro a-fam na yo ama-trel-ma-nan ma-las ina-mankne be, ko o 'ra 
tmkar-na tra wosa atra-tsen tra ka-rok-k'on an-tonka, aka som- 
na ka an'antr na-tabana. 

Ka aii-rei ha ka-rok e-tonka ya a-fam Yisua o tra bolr ama- 



1) Or: o mo son ma-mari, ha etc. 
2' Or: o mo son ma-teri, ha etc. 



— 125 — 

tr&ma ma-tab£na ma w'uni 6 w'uni. A-tan ha yi ri gbo, ah£ 
ma nane atr'ei atse. A-fam a-lal na kali mo ho ha ba tra kali 
tabana ano-ru. Be w'uni o fi ra-fi ra-simtar, ha nane ho atse 
tra gbali he yone rohah. Na mar tra benene traka ra-fi loko 
6 loko; kama be ara-fi ra tier, na tse ri nesa, kama ra tse der 
ronu, ma na tse ri nane. Kere be na wopne he Yisua, be na 
yema he futi ka 'ma-tsir-m'on gbo, na poh he benene traka ra- 
fi; pakasife K'uru o ta poh he lapar ama-trei-ma-nu ma-las; ko 
be K'uru o poh fe tsera-nu ama-trei-ma-nu ma-las, ra-fi ra tra 
yentr-nu ka an'anlr na-labana ro-^ahannama. Ya sa ba tra kali, 
de tra botrne loko 6 loko, mo ho sa kar ka-der ka Yisua a-rei 
6 a-rei, kama sa gbali ba ma-bone ka ka-der-k'oh. Ya sa ba 
tra kali a-rei 6 a-rei, mo ho ma sa ma yema tra poh kali, ma 
ra-fi ra fatrar. 

A-mane-'a-mi! Pa mar- nu tra trap ka-benene traka ah-rei 
na-tsi lemp. Tra-reh e-vvul tramat tra poh tas, mo Enok o fof 
as'im tra-tsi Iraka ka-der ka Yisua, ke e-tetu va Yisua be ha 
pa r'im r'in; na kane-su lo Yisua, owo \i tra tohkas-su, o fatrar 
lemp. tra der tsentsene, be ah-loko, aha K'uru o poh botr, 
ha bek. Kere Yisua o fatr w'lini 6 w'hni, pakasife ma "ra-fi ra 
bap-su, van ka-rok an-tohka ka ma bap-su so. Be na kali ka- 
tubi-ka-nu, a-pahk hah; pakasife na tra he a-loko reke ra-fi ra 
ma der tra trannu ; be pa yi ka ka-reh ka-lom, talom ka an-rei 
a-lom, talom ka ah-gbeleii a-lom, na tr'a he tsi. Traka tsi benene 
nan traka ra-fi, fale nan ka ar'6n'-da-nu ra-las; kone nan ka 
Yisua ka e-mera-'e-nu be, kama na gbali ba ma-bone rohon 
rotli, be o der-e. Ramne nan K'uru, kama o saki e-mera-'e-nu, 
de kama na sake a-wut ha K'uru. 

Sya be sa poh lasar an-toh ha K'hru ka e-nane-'e-su, ka 
as'im-tra-su, de ka 'ma-yos-ma-su. Kane gbali lapar ama-trei-ma- 
su ma-las-e? Kane gbali nasi ama-trel-ma-su ma-las ka ah-reka, 
aha K'uru o gbal traka tr'ci 6 tr'el sa yO-e? Am'antrar-ma-su ma 
gbali he yo-tsi, r'aka 6 r'aka ra gbali he yo-lsi, tambe ama-tsir 
ma Yisua; kono gbali yak-su ka 'ma-trel-ma-su ma-las be, kono 
gbali lapar ama-yos-ma-su ma-las be; be kon' o yak fe su, sa 



— 126 — 

tra fi ka 'ma-trel-ma-su ma-las, ka sa ba tra sompane ara-ban' 
da K'iiru ro-yahannama tahkah 6 tahkah. 

Ten's nan a-ni na ka-futi, aka Yisua o poh waia-su ka 'ma- 
tsir-m'oh; tse na memar tra botr ama-yos-ma-nu ma-fino ka ka- 
belan ka 'ma-tsir ma Yisua, K'iiru o gbali he malane-na. Kere 
aha ma lane Yisua, na gbali kar an-rei ha ka-der ka Yisua re 
ma-bone; pakasife kon', owo mo tohkas-ha, o waia-ha 'ma-tsir- 
m'oh gbeh; pa yi kon' owo ha lane, owo ha wopne, owo poh 
nasia ma-trel-ma-hah ma-las ama-tsir-m'oh. Yisua kono-konone, 
owo mo tohkas-ha, o tra trama-ha rarah, o tra pa rohah : „Der 
nan, aha o-kas-ka-mi o poh ruba, soto nan ak'e ka ra-baT, ara 
ha poh benene traka trannu! 1 ' Aha lane Yisua ha tra trama 
rohoh rodi re ma-bone; kere aha tse lane-ko, aha tse trala-ko, 
ha gbali he trama rohoh rodi, o-ninis o-bana o tra wop-ha, 
pakasife Yisua o tra som-ha ka an'antr na-tabana. 

W'iini owo tse benene traka ra-fi, o ba tra nesa ra-fl, pa- 
kasife ra-fi ra tra yentr-ko ka ka-sompane ka-bana ro-yahannama. 
Kere w'uni owo poh benene traka ra-fi, kono yi o-fol-tr'ei; 
pakasife be o fi, o tra futi ka-sompane ka ra-ru are be tahkah 
tabana, ko o tra yira ka K'uru rokom tahkah 6 tahkah. 

Tele ma na ba a-hesam, trap nan k; o i-benene traka ra-fi; 
be na poh he benene, be ra-fi ra bek-e, na ba he so a-loko 
traka benene ka-rarah ka ra-fi; na gbali he so yo ma-pant, na 
gbali he so tiibi ka-rarah ka ra-fi. Sa sak e-santr ka 'ra-ru 
are, kere ka ra-ru ara ma der-e sa tra rok eye sa poh sak. 

A-mane-'a-mi! Botrar nan am-mera, kama na sak e-santr 
e-fino traka 'ra-ru ara ma der-e, kama na gbali so rok a-yiki 
a-tabana ro-rianna rokoin, kama na gbali ba ma-bone, be Yisua 
o der so ka ah-rei a-lap'so tra tonkas a-fam be. Be na botar 
am'umpal-ma-nu, benene nan traka ra-fi; ah-hesam-'a-nu ano-ru 
ha yi a-burap; kere ah-hesam aha sa ba ka ra-ru ara ma der-e, 
ha ba he o-talane, ha tra won tahkah tabana; ko w'uni 6 w'uni 
owo tse poh lane Yisua, o tra ko ro-yahannama tra sompane 
ri tabana; kere w'iini 6 w'uni, owo poh wopne Yisua traka ka- 
futi, o tra ko ro-rianna tra soto ri nia-bone ma-tabana. Be ra-fi 



— 127 — 

ra bap-nu, na pori he benene. na tra tiibi traka tsi ka-raran 
ka ra-fi; kere ah-lo na-tsi na tra tiibi gbo ka-tsin. 

An-fam ana pon benene lete traka ra-fi, a-fam a-tsempi de 
a-mari-tr'el nan; pakasife be ra-fi ra bek, am-maleika na K'uru 
na Ira kere am'umpal-ma-hah ro rianna tra yira ri tankah 6 
tankan; kere ah-fam ana tse pon benene, a-fam a-pahk nan; 
pakaiife be na fi, setani o tra kere am'umpal-ma-nan ro- 
yahannama tra sonipane ri ka-sompane ka-bana tankan tabana. 

K'anko K'uru kama na fi ar'on' da-fino, de kama sya be 
sa gbanne-so ka ka-tra ka-dio ka K'lirumasaba rokom ka an-rei' 
a-ldp'so traka yira ronon ro-rianna tankan 6 tankan! 

4. 

On Luke 10, 10—16. 

Ylsua o pa ka an-karandi-rion, mo o som-na tra gbal ka- 
wandi: „Be na won ra ka-petr, ka na malane he nu; vvur nan 
ka as'on tra ka-petr ka-t.si, ka pa nan: Hali ka-bof ka ka-petr- 
ka-nu so, aka gbap'sa-sn, sa konkoh-ki ronu; kere trara nan 
atse fo ara-bal 1 ) ra K'uru ra pon fatrar-nu. Ke I kane-nu, to 
atr'ei tra an-fam na ro-Sodom tra tra yi fisa ka an-rei" ha ka- 
rok an-tohka, pa tas atr'ei tra ka-petr ka-t.si. Owo mo Inila- 
nu o tnila-mi; ko owo trala-mi, o trala owo som-mi; ko owo 
farki-nu, o farki owo som-mi." 

Kota mo Ylsua o t \o ma-yos ma-kab^ne ma-lal ka-troh ka 
ah-fam ha ah-Yehudi, kota mo o lak'sa-ha ka-tsemp ka-bana, de 
a-fosa a-bana; aha lahe-ko mo ho ow'an ka K'urumasaba, ha yi 
gbo a-tan. Ylsua o trara-tsi o mota trap ka-tak'sa-ha. Traka 
tsi o kane ah-karandi-hoh, fo a-fam ha tra yo-ha, ma ha \o- 
ko; ko o kane-ha atra ha ba ka-yo traka ka-petr, aka tse ha 
malane; o kane-ha fo ha ba tra trori an-fam ha ka-petr ka-tsi 
fo ara-ban' da K'uru ra rensa-na; pakasife ha malane fg ariin 
ra K'uru. Ko Ylsua kono-konone o trori-su ka-sompa, aka ma 
der-e ka tra-petr be, atra tse wop ar'i'm-r'gh. Ylsua o kane- 



1' Or: ka-gbaka ka K-, „the reign of etc." 



— 128 — 

su w'uni 6 w'uni gwg tse wop ar'im-r'gh, o tra sdmpane ro- 
yahannama tabana. Sodom ka yi ka-petr ka-bana tapaii; kg 
pakasife an-fam na ro- Sodom ha yg ma-trei ma -las ma-lal, 
K'uru o dim-ha ka an antr, ana tor ka k'uru. K'uru o som fe 
ar'im-r'gh ka an-fam na ro- Sodom, o man fe na tra fale ka 
ar'on'-da-nan ra-las; kere pakasife na yo ma-trei ma-las ma-la?, 
o dim-na. Kere rgnu K'uru o pon som ar'im-r'on ka ka-san- 
ka-mi; 1 pon der rgnu, kg K'uru o man-nu ka ka-san-ka-mi, 
kama na wop ar'im-r'on; o trori-nu afra o poii yona-nu, o Irori- 
nu fo o pon som Yisua ow'an-k'oh tra futia-nu ka ka sompane- 
k'oii, de ka 'ra-fi-r'ori. Ak'afa ka K'uru, kia yi ho am-beibal 
ka kane-su fo: „Ya K'uru o botar ara-ru, ha o sond ow'an-k'oii 
kom ro-k'or son; k«4ma w'uni 6 w'uni gwg lane-kg, g tse dinne, 
kere kama g sgtg a-nesam a-tabana. " Yisua g fi tra trannu 
mg hg s'adka traka ra-bomp ra ama-tref-ma-nu ma-las. Ama- 
trel ame be an-fam na ro-Sodom ha tr'a he na tapah; traka tsi 
be nyah na wop fe ar'im ra K'firu, ara g som rgmi ka ka-tra- 
ka-mi , g tra sgmpa-nu , pa tas ah-fcim ha ro-Sodom. Yisua g 
kane ah-karandi-hgh tra kohkoh ka-bof ka Ir'atrak-tra-hah ka 
an-fam, aha tse wop ka-som-k'gh; g kane-ha tra trgri-ha, fg 
K'uru g bah'sar-ha hali. Yisua, mg g hatr ro-rianna, g kane 
ah-karandi-h'gh, kama ha kg ka 'ra-ru be, tra tramas ar'im-r'gh 
ra-tot ka a-fam be, tra saki a-fam be a-karandi-rVoh. kane- 

- O — ' oo~ ~~ 

ha, fg w'uni 6 w'uni gwg lane-kg, g tra futi; kere w'uni 6 
w'uni gwg tse lane-kg mg gw'an ka K'urumasaba, de gwg tse 
wop-kg mg o-futia ka a-fam, g tra dinne gbg. Be K'uru g 
sgmpa an-fam ha ro-Sodom g-bah, pakasife ha yg ma-trei ma- 
las, hali ma ha tse ba ar'im-r'gh; g tra sgmpa-nu pa tas-ha, be 
na farki ka-som ka Yisua, gw'an ka K'urumasaba, de be na kasi 
tra wop-ki. Be g-bal g-lgm g som a-telu ka ah-fam-h'gh tra 
kere r'im rghah, ah-fmn ha-tsi ha ba tra wop ar'im ra an-tetu 
mg ar'im ra g-bai; kg be ha farki ar'im ra an-lelu, ha farki 
ar'im ra g-bal, gwg som-kg. Ye pa yi sg, be a-fam ha wop 
he ar'im ara e-telu ya Yisua ha tramar-ha ka ah'es ha Yisua, 
ha farki Yisua kgng-kgngne, gwg som e-tetu tra tramas ar'im- 
r'gh; kg gwg farki ar'im ra Yisua, g farki ar'im ra K'urumasaba, 



— 129 — 

pakasife kdno som Yisua ow'an-k'on Ira fiitia-sn ka ka-sompane- 
k'oh, de ka 'ra-fi-r'on. Be a-fam m farki an-telu ha o-ba!, o- 
baT owori o tra sompa an-fam na-tsi Inika tsi. Ye pa yi so, 
K'uru o tra sompa w'uni 6 w'uni, owo t.se wop ar'i'm ra Yisua, 
ow'an-k'on, owo t.se ko lane, de owo farki ar'im-r'gh ; o tra 
sgmpa-ko, pa las an-fam na ro- Sodom, ana K'flru o dim ka 
an'antr, ana lor ka k'uru. Hali ma a-fam a-la! na t.se lane 
Yisua, g tra lasar ar'im-r'oh, ara o pa: „W'uni 6 w'uni owo 
mo lane, o tra kisi; kere w'Qni 6 w'uni own mo tse lane, o 
tra dinne." Ar'i'm ra K'uru ra yi tra-tsen, hali ma a-fam be 
na tse ri lane. Pa be' he tra tral ar'im ra Yisua gbo, Ira ruine- 
ri ra-fino de ra-tratseri, na ba tra yo-ri so. Bo w'uni, owo ba 
ra-tru, o soto e-trol, o ba tra di-u, bo o yema solo ka-yenk 
ma-der. Ye pa yi so, be sa yema soto ma-trei ma-fino ka 
ar'im ra K'uru, sa ba tra \0 atra o trori-su ka ar'im-r'on. Be 
na gbali na nank ama-yi ma an-fam, aha yi ro-Sodom tapan, 
be na gbali na nahk ka-kulo-ka-hah, de ka-nak-hak-e-sok-ki- 
hah, na tra nahk a nan ah-fam ha-tsi i-neT. Kere kota ka- 
«ompane-ka-hah ka yi ka-bah; ka-sompane ka aha ma farki, aha 
ma tse wop ar'im ra Yisua, ara I poh tramar-nu e-lyko e-lai 
tapah, ka tra tas o-bana. Be na wop ar'im, ani 1 tramar-nu, 
na wop he ar'im-ra-mi gbeh; kere na wop ar'im ra K'uru, owo 
som-mi ronu; ka be na wop he ar'im, ara 1 trori-nu. na v. op 
he ar'im ra K'uru; ka trara nan, be na vo \ah-e, na tra ba 
k'asi ka-bana rodi ka K'uru. E-loko e-lal I poh der ronu tapah, 
I pon der ka ah'es ha Yisua tra tramar-nu ar'im ra-tot, Ira 
mah-nu, kama na malane ka-futi-k'on. aka o poh's tra trannu 
sq, de kama na torane rodi ka K'Qru traka 'ma-troi-ma-nu ma- 
las; kama Yisua o ebali t.sera-nii-ha. Mine yi a-letu ha Yisua. 
kono som-mi ronu tra tsela-nu ka ka-bolah-k'oh; kama na lane- 
ko, kama na wop ar'im-r'oh ka tra-tseh. Be na Inila fe mi, 
na trala he Yisua, owo som-mi ronu, na farki owo tana ki'sia- 

oo- J - - 7 --o 

nu son; na farki owo mo re tohkas-nu ka an-rei a-lap'so; na 
f^rti owo mo re gbak aina-trei-ma-nu ka-rarah ka ra-fi. W'uni 
6 w'uni owo tse tral ar'im ra Yisua, Yisua o tra tramar-ko ka 
ka-tra-k'oh ka-mero ka ah-rei a-lap'so; ka aha ma trama ka ka- 

Temne - Ausprachen. 9 



— 130 — 

mero-k'gh be, tra som-na ro-}ahannama, ka an'antr na-tabana. 
Be a-fam ha farki an-tetu na o-bal, ha farki g-bal; pakasife an- 
tetu o yi ka-san ka g-bal. Ye pa yi so, be a-tetu na Yisua 
o Iramar-nu ar'i'm ra K'llru, Yisua kgng konone kgng fgfar-nu 
ka ka-san-k'on. Traka tsi be a-tetu ha Yisua o trgri-nu ka-som 
ka Yisua, pa yi mo ho Yisua kgng-kgngne o tor ka k'Oru tra 
trgri-nu-ki. Tra yi tr'ei tra-bana tra-ffno tra tral ar'im ra K'liru- 
masaba. E-wul e-lal \a a-fam ha gbali he tral-ri, pakasife e- 
telu ya Yisua ha der he roriari. A-laT ha tra selg nah tra wop- 
ri lemp de ma-bone, be pa yi ha gbali tral-ri gbo. Be an-fam 
ha ro-Sodom 'a pon' nah tral tapah, atra nvah na poh tral, ha 
tra pon' na ti'ibi tsentsene- Traka tsi atr'ei tra ah-fam ha ro- 
Sudom tra tra yi fisa ka ah-rei a-lap'so, pa tas atr'ei tra ana 
ma tral ar'im ra R'uru; kere ha yo fe atra ha poh tral. Nyah 
na poh tral ar'im ra K'uru ; kere na yo fe atra na poh tral. 
E-wul e-lai ya a-fam, aha yi ro-krifi , ha tdbi hali; pakasife ha 
poh farki ar'im ra K'uru ano-ru; ke be pa gbali na yi ha tra 
kal so ano-ru, ha tra wop nah ar'im are lemp de ma-bone; 
k£re na gb;ili he so kal. 

A-mane-'a-mi! Botrar nah am-mera ka 'ma-trei ame! Tete 
na ba a-loko a-fol-tr'el tra tdbi, de tra ko ka Yisua traka solo 
ka-lapar ka 'ma-trei-ma-nu ma-las. Lansa na ba he so a-lokg 
traka lii m'jiah. Wtini 6 w'imi owo farki an-toh ha Mnsa, na 
tlit-ko, na ba he ko i-nel. Kere ka-sgmpane ka aha ma farki 
Yisua, g\\'an ka K'urumasaba, de aha ma farki ama-tsir ma 
Yisua, ama g loh traka trahhah, ama gbali fetar-ha son; — ka- 
sgmpane ka ah-fam ha-t.si ka tra tas g-bana. Pa yi he tr'ei 
tra-lgl tra farki ama-!. sir ma Yisua, gvvg yira tete ka ka-dig ka 
K'urumasaba rokgm, gwg mo kal der tra tonkas a-fam be, de 
gwg ba ara-gb«ika tele ro-rianna de ka an-tgf, ha g botr aha 
gbeha-kg be ka ma-nl-m'gh rata. 

A-fam a-mari-tr'ei hah, aha ma tral ar'im ra K'uru, de 
ana ma wop-ri sg! A-fam a-mari-lr'el hah, aha ma sgna Yisua 
lra-\vu ang-ru re ma-bgne; kama ha tse ba tra sgna-kg tra-wu 
ka ah-rei a-lap'sg de g-ninis ro-yahannama! 

Tengh kia I lap'sg gbaia-nu ka-wandi, pakasife 1 tsi kalane 



— 131 — 

ka an-tof a-poto, ke I tsi lemne-nu tenon, Tra-ren trofatr tra- 
ran tra poh tas, me I mo'a der ka an-tof *a-nu Ira Iramar-nu 
ar'i'm ra K'iiru, ke I poh gbalr-nu ka-wandi e-loko e-lal. Kere 
hali I poh gbaia-nu ka-wandi e-loko e-lal, w'lini kin o yi he 
ka ka-tron-ka-nu, ovto wop as'im-tra-mi Iraka tesas am-mera-mi. 
Nji pon tral ar'i'm ra K'iiru e-loko e-lai; kere na tral-ri gbo, na 
poh fe wop-ri. Nvah na ba atr'ei atse, nyan na ba tra wosa 
ka K'urumasaba Iraka ka-tse-wop ar'im-r'oh, ko o tra sompa-nu 
traka tsi. Na ebali he katr k'ere, na gbali he pa ka K'uru ka 
ah-rei a-lap'so fo ye: „Sa tral he nan ar'im-ra-mu, sa tra he 
nan ama-selo-ma-inu;" pakasife na pon tral ar'im-r'oh, na pon 
trara ama-selo-m'on; e-tetu ya Yisua ha poh trori-nu ar'im-r'oh 
de ama-selo-m'oh; kere na yema he ri wop. I kane-nu fo 
K'uru o poh som ow'an-k'oh gbeh ka 'ra-ru are tra (i traka a- 
fam, kama ha t.se ba ka-dinne; kere kama ha gbali soto ka- 
lapar ka 'ma-trei-ma-hah ma-las, de kama ha gbali ko ro-rianna. 
Be na lane Yisua, be na seline-ko, be na wop ar'im-r'oh, be 
na trei ka-yo ma-trei ma-las; K'uru o tra tsera-nu ama-trel-ma- 

o o w - c 7 - o 

nu ma-las, o tra soh-nu a-hesam a-tabana ro-rianna. 

A-mane-'a-mi ! Botrar nan am-mera, trap nan tenon tra 
wop ar'im ra K'iiru, ara i poh trori-nu; kama na tse dinne 
tabcina; kere kama na fiiti ka 'ra-ban' da K'urumasaba. Nem- 
tene nan K'uru, kama o mar-nu tra lane-ko, tra wop ar'im- 
r'oh, de tra yO tr'ei 6 tr'el, atra o poh kane-nu ka ar'im-r'oh. 
Nerutene-ko nan tra fritia am'umpal-ma-nu, de tra ba-nu i-nei. 
de tra tanas-nu, kama na gbali sake rohoh; tsa pa \i he ka 
ah-fosa ha nyah na gbali sake ka K'iiru; kono ba tra mar-nu 
traka vo-tsi. 

Kahko K'iiru na sake ka Yisua tra-l.sen, kama o sake roni'i. 
de kama na soto ma-trgma ma-fino ro-rianna. Rianna o yi 
od'er o-ma-bone; ka-sompane 6 ka-sompane ka. yi he ri, ra-tru 
6 ra-tru ra yi he ri, m'one 6 m'one ma yi he ri; kere ma- 
bone gbo tahkah 6 tahkah. 



9* 



— 132 — 

Chapter III. 
The ten Commandments. 

(E-toft trgfatr.) 

K'urumasaba o fof as'im aire he, o pa ho: 

1. Mine yi Yehofa Ok'uru-ka-mu, o^vo wura-mu ka an-tof 
ha Misra, ka an-set ha ra-trar. Tse ba tr'ciru tra-lom tcimbe 
minan. l ) 

2. Tse bempane a-ron 6 a-rgh a-fos, talom ra-b^lane 6 ra- 
balane ra r'aka 6 r'aka ara yi ka ak'uru rokom, talom ara yi ka 
an-tof rokom, talom ara yi ro-m'antr ka an-tof rorata. Tse 
sdna-yi tra-wu, de tse lehki-yi: tsa mine Yehofa Ok'uru-ka- 
mu I yi K'uru owo ba ka-trutr, owo ram ama-trel ma-las ma 
ah-kas ka tra-bomp tra ah-wut ha ka 'ra-komra, ara beka tra- 
sas de ara beka tr'ahle ka ana gbena-mi; de owo ba i-nei traka 
e-wul ya aha botar-mi, de aha wop e-toh-'e-ini. 

3. Tse bontr ah'es ha Yehofa Ok'Qru-ka-mu ka-tsih; tsa 
Yehofa o - gbali he nahk w'i'ini, owo bontr ah'es-hoh ka-tsih, mo 
w'uni paiii-tr'eT. 

4. Nane ah-rei ha ah -Saba! tra wop-hi a-sam. Ma-rei 
tramat ro kin ma yi tra yo ma-pant, de m<3 yi tra yd ama-pant- 
ma-mu be; kere ah-rei, aha beka tramat de rah, na yi ah-Sabat 
ha Yehofa Ok'uru-ka-mu : ka ah-rei ahe ma gbali he yo ma- 
paut 6 ma-pant, pa yi he mono, pa yi he ow'an-ka-mu o-runi, 
pa yi he ow'an-ka-mu o-bera, pa yi he am-bo!-'a-mu a-riini, pa 
yi he am-boT-'a-inu a-bera, pa yi he tra-sem-tra-mu tra ka-petr, 
pa yi he o-lsik, owo yira ka tra-petr-tra-mu: tsa ka ma-rei 
tramat ro kin Yehofa o bempa atr'dru de an-tof, de ka-bah, de 
r'aka 6 r'aka ara yi ri rok'or, ko o fotane ka ah-rei aha beka 
tramat de rah: tsfan Yehofa q ruba ah-rei ha ah-Sabat, ko o 
samas-ni. 3 ) 



1) Or: tr'iiru tra.«tsel rayer-ka-mi; strange gods beside me." 
_') Or: y yo-iii a-sam; „he made it sacred." 



— 133 — 

5. Nesa g-kas-ka mu de g-kara-ka-mu; kama ma bgl an- 
hesam-'a-mu ka an-tof, ana Yehofa Ok'uru-ka-mu o sgri-mu. 

6. Tse dif. 

7. Tse yg ka-rap. 

8. Tse keia. 

9. Tse sgh t'amasere tra ra-yem traka g-fatrane-ka-mu. 
10. Tse ba a-fela traka ah-set na g-fatrane-ka-mu; tse ba 

a-fela tr&ka o-rani ka o-fatrane-ka-mu, pa vi he traka am-bgl- 
n'on a-runi, pa y\ he traka am-bol-n'on a-bera, pa yi he traka 
g-na-k'gh, pa yi he traka ah-sofali-h'gn, pa yi he traka r'aka 
6 r'aka, ara g-fatrane-ka-mu g ba. 

Chapter IV. 
Translation of some Psalms. 

An-Sitlma 1. 

1. Wuni mari-tr'el won, o\\6 tse kgt ka ka-man ka ah- 
fam a-las, de owg tse trama ka ar'on' da an-fam ana yg g-las, 
de gwg tse yira ka ka-wan ka ah-fam a-sel-tr'el. 

3. Kere gwd tesa traka an-tgn ha Yehofa. de gwg tram- 
tramne an-tgh-h'gh ra-yah de tratrak-ah. 

3. balane mQ h'antr ana 'a tsep ka tr.vbal tra m'anlr 
rayer, aha sgh ama-komi-ma-tsi ka ah-lgkg-ha-tsi; de e-bgpar- 
ya-tsi e gbali he yimra, de tr'el 6 tr'el atra g yg g nafas-tsi. 

4. Pa yi he yah traka ah-fam a-las; kere (ha yi) mg e- 
fuk, eye ah-fef ha falira. 

5. Tsiah ah-fam a-las ha gbali he tnama ka ka-rgk an- 
tghka, pa yi he ah-fam aha yg g-las ka ah-gbanne ha ah-fam 
a-tralseh. ') 

6. Tsa Yehofa g trara aron' da ah-fam a-tratseh; 2 ) kere 
ar'on' da ah-fam a-las ra diiine. 



1) Or: ha an-tratseh; „of the righteous." 

2) Or: da an-tratseh; „of the righteous.' 1 



— 134 — 

An-Salma 23. 

1. Yehofa o yi o-lrol-ka-mi; 1 gbali he pan r'aka. 

2. yo-mi I fanta ra tra-lal tra k'eren ka-fino; o k^re- 
mi ( ) ka am'antr ma o-fotane raver. 

3. kal bakas ah'umpal-'a-mi; 2 ) o kere-mi ka as'on' tra 
ma-lompi traka ra-bomp ra aiVes-n'on. 

4. Ahkd, kota me I kot 3 ) ka ka-gborikal ka an-fglr na ra- 
fi, I gbali lie nesa tr'el 6 tr'ei tra-las: pakasife 4 ) miino ma yi 
romi; ka-sete-ka-mu 5 ) de ka-trak-ka-mu tra befat-mi. 

5. Ma beneua-mi a-mesa traka ka-di rod'er ka an-gbena- 
'a-mi kadi; 6 ) am-poti-'a-mi na la pal. 7 ) 

6. Ma-tnt de ma-bona ma tra tram-mi gbo ama-rei ma ari- 
liesam-'a-mi be; ke 1 tsi vira ka an-sel na Yehofa tabatia. 

o ~ v 

An-Salma L26. 
A-U'A na tra-tsik. 

1. Mo Yehofa o ka!a e-funti ya Siou, sa yi mo ho ana ma 
wo rap. 

2. An-lo na-tsi tra-san-tra-su Ira hisane ma-sel, de tra-mer- 
tra-su (tra lasane) ma-len : an-lo ria-tsi ha pa ka-troh ka ah- 
kafti: Yehofa o poh ygna-na ma-trei ma-bana. 

3. Yehofa o poh ydna-su ma-trei ma-bana; pa bone-su. 8 ) 



1) Or: Q botrar-mi am-inera ka etc., „he takes care of me 
at etc." 

2) Or: ah-hr-sam-'a-mi. 

3) Or better: Ye pa yi so, me I kot etc.; „thus it is also 
when 1 walk etc." 

4) Or: tsa etc. 

5) Or: akVintr-ka-mu. 

6) Or: rod'er ka ana gbefia-mi kadi. 
71 Or: ii a la ha ha 16 ha. 

8) Or: sa ba ma-bone. Or: tsla som pa bone-su. 



— 135 — 

4. Kala so, o Yehofa, e-fiinti-'e-su, mo 1 ) atra-bat tra an- 
tof na ka-dio! 

5. Ana saka e-santr m'antrar, na tra re roka ma-bone. 

6. Na wur na tas ka bok-an, na banane e-santr, na kalane 
so na der re ma-bone, na karane ama-gbon-ma-nan. 

Note. The first verse, if translated literally is as follows: „When 
the Lord brought back the captives of Zion etc.;" according 
to the sense of the common Engl, version. But according to 
a learned Commentator the Hebr. 21&' in Kal is always to 
be taken intr. ill the sense of „return", or „return to", 
when the place to which one returns follows also often in 
the Ace. This assertion he founds on the principal passage 
of Deut. 30, 2. 3. where this expression first occurs, and in 
the first six verses of which 2W occurs several times, and 
only once it is given tr. by „turn, bring back"; but even 
there it will give a better sense in rendering it by „return 
to", as v. 2.: „And shalt return unto the Lord thy God, 
and shalt etc." v. 3.: „Then the Lord thy God will return 
to thy captivity etc." This observation applies also to the 
other passages where 2'Wf is given tr. in the common ver- 
sion; but where it will give a very good sense when ren- 
dered by „ return to" ; viz. in Ps. 14, 7. 85, 4. and Jes. 52, 8. 

"When taken intr. the Engl, version of the 1 st . verse of 
the preceding Psalm would be as follows: „When the Lord 
turned himself to the returning (i.e. conversion) of Zion, etc.;" 
and in Temne : Mo Yehofa o sake ka ka-sake ka Sion, etc., 
or more fully: ka ka sake ka am-mera ka Sion etc. 

As 211^' has also the sense of „be converted", n2"Vj' may 
be given by conversion, hence rCPft*' 2Wf = „return to the 
returning," or „return (turn oneself) to the conversion;" and 
niZlf' 2W't „return to the captivity," or fig. „to the misery 
of etc." 



1) Or: Kalane so, o Yehofah, ka ra-funti-ra-su , mo etc.; 
„return again, o Jehova, to our captivity, as etc." 



— 136 — 

Chapter V. 

Hymns. 

1. Am-B6sne traka Rianna. (2 Cor. 5, I.) (C. M.) 

1. 

Sa ba a-set. ha vi rokdm. 
Na fas e-set ng-rQ; 
Ke be sa fi sa kgne ri. 
Tra yira ri rokgm. 

2. 

Na ji a-set a-bakar gbaft. 
Na vi he ka an-tof; 
Na tei he me e-set e-lom, 
Na vi ri ro rokom. ') 

3. 
Yehofa kono bempa-i'ii. 
A-fam na sal he ni; 

o 

An-set ahe na yese he, 
A-fam na sim he ni. 

4. 
Ah'nmpal-'a-mi na bosne gba, 
Tra bek an-set na-tsi; 
Na yema trel an-set ng-ru, 
Tra ba ana rokgm. 

5. 

Sa kar ra-fi, pa bdne-su; 
Tsa ria yo sa trel 
An-set-'a-su a-yai ane, 
Tra won an-set a-fu. 2 ) 



1 Or: Na won ha tas 'ra-ru. 
2) Or: Tra wgh an-set rokgm. 



— 137 — 

2. Ama-B<Jtar de ama-Tgt ma K'drumasaba. 
(P. M. Or like : Though troubles assail etc. *) 

1. 

Yehofa rokom, 

yo-mi o-tot; 

dis-nii, o muns-mi, o losir-mi so, 
botrar-mi 'mera. o nahka-mi 'nei; 
Ha r'aka ra gbali he yo-mi Q-ban. 

2. 
Yehofa rokdra, 

bempa-mi gbeir; 
bani-mi so ka 'ra-trar ra o-las; 
yo-mi ow'an ka o-kas-k'on rokom: 
Iser-mi I i'i a 1 r ro-rianna b' I fi. 

3. 

Yehofa rokom. 

Ah-fosa-h'oh son. 

Sa bene-mi tot ama-rei-ma-mi be. 

yo-mi 1 fan 1 a, I (lira so gbes, 
\0-mi I tame. 1 yokane ras. 

4. 
Yehofa rokom. 
kali-mi tot ; 

yona-mi atr'ei tra-kabane tra-tsi, 
Owan-k'oh o fi ka ka-belan-ka-mi ; 

1 trara ton krino mo bot;jr-mi gba. 2 ) 

5. 
Mo kono mi ba. 
I nesa he so; 

Tsa r'aka ra-sompa ra gbali he fatr; 
bumar-mi loko 6 loko tra-tsen, 
Ka r'aka ra-fino 1 gb$li he pah. 



1) Or according to the Germ, tune: „Ob Trtibsal uns krankt, 

etc." 

2) Or: I trara ton kono mo tena-mi gba. 



— 138 — 

6. 
Yehofa rokom 

Ka-lapso ka-tsi, 

som a-maleika tra kere-mi ro, 

Ro Yfsua o yira rokom ka ka-wah, 

Ro m'one 6 m'one ma gbali he won. 

3. Doxology. (L M.) 

(Praise God from whom etc.) 

1. 
K'riru o son e-ruba be, 
Man leiisir-ko, — tse t.si piilne, 
Tok-ko a-fam be ka 'ra-ru, 

- - o ~ 

Nya a-maleika na k'liru. 

2. 
R'Ciru o-Kas, man lensir-ko; 
Lensir Ow'an-k'on kom gbo son; 
K'iiru o-Riihu lensir nan, 
Ra-Sas ra-sam man lensir nan. 

o o 

Chapter VI. 
The Lord's Prayer. 

(Ka-ramne ka o-Rabu.) 
Pa-ka-su, owo yi ro ka rianna, kanko *) an'es-'a-mu na yi 
a-sam; kanko') ara-bal-ra-mu ra bek; kanko 1 ) ama-selo-ma-mu 
ma yone ka an-tof, ma ma ydne ro ka rianna. Yer-su tenon 
ar'a-ra-su ra-di, ara beki. Tsera-su ama-trel-ma-su ma-las, ma 
syan sa tser so ana ma yo-su o-las. Tse su wona ka ra ra- 
gbosa; kgre wura-su ka ma-tre! ma-las. Tsa muno ba 'ra-baT, 
de an-fosa, de ari-yiki tarikan 6 taiikan. Am'ina. 

1) Or: tra, „let". 



Part IE. 



Temne- English Vocabulary. 



Note. See the Preface § 22. 



Abbreviations explained. 



a. 


active. 


log. 


logical. 


abbr. 


abbreviated. 


n. 


neuter. 


abr. 


abruptive. 


n. 


noun. 


abs. 


absolute. 


obj. 


objective. 


abstr. 


abstract. 


obs. 


obsolete. 


adj. 


adjective. 


onom. 


onomatopoetic 


adv. 


adverb. 


part. 


particle. 


aux. 


auxiliary. 


pass. 


passive. 


caus. 


causative 


pers. 


personal. 


of. 


confer. 


pi. 


plural. 


corap 


compound. 


poss. 


possessive. 


concr. 


concrete. 


postp. 


postposition. 


conj. 


conjunction. 


pr. 


pronoun. 


contr. 


contracted. 


pref. 


prefix. 


def. 


definite. 


prep. 


preposition. 


dem. 


demonstrative. 


prob. 


probably. 


dim. 


diminutive. 


prop. 


proper. 


doubl. 


doubly. 


prox. 


proximate. 


emph. 


emphatic. 


rad. 


radix. 


euph. 


euphonic. 


recipr. 


reciprocal. 


expl. 


expletive. 


red. 


reflexive. 


tig. 


figuratively. 


rel. 


relative. 


freq. 


frequentative. 


rem. 


remote. 


inch. 


inchoative. 


revert. 


revertive. 


indef. 


indefinite. 


sing. 


singular. 


impers. 


impersonal. 


spec. 


specific. 


insep. 


inseparable. 


spout. 


spontive. 


int. 


interjection. 


subj. 


subjective. 


intens. 


intensive. 


suff. 


suffix. 


inter. 


interrogative. 


V. 


verb. 


irrel. 


irrelative. 


verb. 


verbal. 


lit. 


literally. 


vow. 


vowel. 


loc. 


local. 







A-, pref. indef. „a, an"; e. g. a-set, „a house". 

A-, pref. emph. vow. to make compound indef. prefixes, as: ka-, 
ma-, na-, etc or k', tr', etc. definite; e. g. ama-bdne, „lhe 
joy", from ma-bone, „joy"; ak'dntr, „the slick", from k'antr, 
„a stick". See Pref. § 22. b. 

-A, suff., being a weaker form of -an, used relatively only. It 
may be affixed to nouns, pronouns and to some local adverbs; 
e. g. kla. „it", from ki, „it". 

-A, suff., often added at the end of a proposition for the pur- 
pose to make the last vowel sound agree with a preceding 
vowel sound <i , or to cause a sort of quibble. Sometimes 
it is used after exclamatory sentences, as: der ba lemp-a! 
„come here quickly!" 

-A? inter, suff., depending on euphony, and used with ma? me? 
and mo? when having the sense of „why?" e. g. mam bes 
ano-a? „why doest thou dig here?" — For its other uses 
see the Grammar. 

-A? inter, loc. suff. „ where?" implying the subsantive verb 
„be"; it is affixed to nouns and pronouns like the Hebr. \V 
— E. g. an-tis-a? „where is the knife?" or: an-tis ni-a? 
lit. „the knife where, is it?" = ni-a an-tis-a? lit. „where 
is it the knife;" mun'-a? „where art thou?" = the Hebr. 
nSUN Gen. 3, 9.; tri-a? or tsi-a? „ where are they (spoons, 
sticks etc.)?" for tria-a? or tsia-a? More particulars about 
the use of Ibis suff. will be found in the Temne Grammar. 

A! int. ,,ah! oh! now! well!" It is expressive of wonder, dis- 
like, censure, and approval, also of joy or grief, pain and 
compassion; e. g. a w'an! „oh boy!" 

A, abbrev. form of na, pr. subj. „they, it;" e. g. 'a sap-ko, 
„they flogged him." 

'A-mi, pr. poss. abbr. „my", for: ha-mi, lit. „of me;" e. g. 
an-set-'a-mi, „my house." 



— 144 — 

'A-mu, pr. poss. abbr. „thy a , for: ria-mu, lit. „of thee;" e. g. 
an-set-'a-mu, „thy house." 

'A-nan, pr. poss. abbr. „their", for. na-nan, lit. „of them;" e. g. 
an-set-'a-nan, „their house." 

'A-nu, pr. poss. abbr. „your", for: na-nu, lit. „of you;" e. g. 
ari-set-'a-nu, ..your house." 

*A-su, pr. poss. abbr. ,.oui", for: na-su, lit. „of us;" e. g. an- 
sel-'a-su, „our house." 

Aka-, def. pref. = ka-, „the"; e. g. aka-bep, ka-bep, ..!he 
spoon;" but ka-bep, „a spoon." 

Aka, pr. rel. „ which"; e. g. ka-bep aka I wal, „the spoon which 
I bought." 

Ake, pr. dem. prox. „this"; e.g. ak'anlr ake, „this stick." 

Alikali. n. title of the kings of the Port-Loko territory. Lit. 
„the chief judge." It seems in the first place to be derived 
from the Mandingo Alkali, „a!caid", or „alcalde", and ulti- 
mately from the Ar. ^li", ^oli'j judex, and with the article: 

summus judex. In Temne the i is inserted after the Arab, 
article al- for the sake of euphony. The Chiefs of the Sikhs 
in India are called: akali, which no doubt comes from the 
same root. 

s ' -'"* 

Alukrana, n. „the Koran." From the Ar. ^jtJiJf, coranus. 

Am, euph. form of ma, „thou", used before b, m and p with 
interrogative propositions; e. g. am poh di-i? „hast thou 
eaten?" — See ma in loco. 

Am-, pref. def. „the", used before the letters b, m and p; e. g. 
am-bitra, „the botlle." 

Ama-, pref. def. „the"; e. g. ama-ber, „the liquor." 

Ama, „pr. rel. „\vhieh"; e. g. ma-lemre ama I ba, „the limes 
which I have." 

Amba! int. and adv. „well! thank you!" Cf. for examples Col- 
loquial Phrases, pag. 105 etc. 

Ame; pr. dem. prox. sing, and pi. „this, these;" e. g. ama-lrel 
ame, „these things." 



— 145 — 

Amina, i adv. „amen", „so be it." From the Ar. (j^+J, amen, 
Amini, \ ita sit. The Temnes say amini, the Mori-men amina. 
An-, pref. def. „the", used before the letters d, n and t; e. g. 

an-tis, „the knife." 
An, euph. form of ma, „thou", used before d, n and t with 
interrogative propositions; e. g. an dfra-i? „hast thou slept?" 
An, pref. def. „the", used before all consonants excepting b. m 

and p, as also d, n and t; e. g. ah-gbata, „the mat." 
-An, suff. , indicating with verbs a continuance of the energy 
of the verb, with which it is used, while one speaks of it, 
as: na ma dl-ah, „they are eating." It is generally used 
with participial propositions. If a verb, having more than 
one syllable, terminates in a, then the vowel of the suff. is 
cut off, as: kono me tila-h, „him I am selling." 
-Ah, suff., used with pronouns, when it makes them emphatic, 
or rather absolute. This form may, however, be also used 
relatively; but the weaker form -a, which see above, is never 
used absolutely. It is also used with a few local adverbs. 
When used with nouns or names, it seems to be used as 
a sort of expletive or euph. particle, or as a sort of insep- 
arable dem. pr. , at least it contains the element of it. Ah 
is sometimes vet followed by the suffix -e, and thus, be- 
comes a compound one, and may be thus used with verbs 
and nouns; e. g. hlah, „it", from hi; as: an-tis-'a-mi nian, 
„this is my knife," lit. ,.mv knife it." 
An, euph. form of ma, „thou", used before g and k with inter- 
rogative propositions; e. g. an ko ro-pelr-i? „arl thou going 
to town?" 
Ah, adv. „yes", used with a nod of the head. It is an almost 
inarticulate sound; e. g. o-kas-ka-mu o yi ri-i? Ah, o yi 
ri; „is thy father there?" „Yes, he is there." 
An ah! int. or adv. „so so! tolerably well! nothing particular! 
pretty well!" It is an almost inarticulate sound. See Colloq. 
Phras. p. 105. 

Teniae - Worterbuch. 1" 



— 146 — 

Ana\ pr. rel. „ which"; e. g. na-bena ana I ka>a, „ ropes which 

I brought." 
Ana-, pref. def. „the"; e. g. ana-set, „the house." 
Ana, pr. rel. sing, and pi. „who, they who; which." When 

referring to a noun of place, it may be given by „where"; 

e. g. an-set ana o sal, „the house which he built." 
Anai-, pref. def comp. „the"; as anai-yari, „the cat," = an-yari. 
Ane, pr. dem. prox. „this"; e. g. an'antr ane, „this fire." 
Ane, pr. dem. prox. sing, and pi. „ this, these";" e. g. an-fam 

ane, „this people." 
Arum, pr. dem. rem. sing, and pi. „that, those." Sometimes 

merely nan, which see; e. g. „an-fam anan, „those persons." 
Anina, * = nlna, or ninan, adv. „to morrow"; e. g. aninan loko 
Aninan, ) wunon I tsi kone, „to morrow about this time I shall 

go." The longer form may be used absolutely. 
Anko, adv. „yes"; e. g. ma kone ro-k'or-i? Anko; „doest thou 

go to the farm?" „Yes." 
And, adv. emph. „here"; e. g. o yi fe and, „he is not here." 
And, prep. prox. „here at, here in, here from, here to." It 

implies the adv. „here"; e.g. ano-petr, „here in this town." 
Apa-, pref. def. „the"; e. g. kara pa-la apa-fino, „bring the rice 

the good one." 
Apa, pr. rel. „which", e. g. pa-la apa 1 wal, „rice which I 

bought." 
Ara-, pref. def. „the"; e. g. ara-befta, „the rope." 
Ara, pr. rel. „which"; e. g. ra-bena ara I gbak, „a rope and 

rope which I cut." 
Are, pr. dem. prox. „this"; e. g. ara-bena are. „this rope." 
Alra-, pref. def. = tra, „the"; e. g. atra-bep, „the spoons," = 

tra-bep. 
Atra, pr. rel. „which"; e. g. tra-bep atra dinno, „the spoons 

which are lost." 
Atse, = aire, pr. dem. prox. sing, and pi. „this, these;" e. g. 

atr'ei atse, „this matter." See the Note after kotsi. 
Awa! int. „well! well now! very well!" Germ. „wohlan!" Lat. 

age! e.g. awa, sa kdne! „well, we go!" 



— 147 — 

B. 

B', abbr. of be, which see; e. g. b' I fi, „when I die." 

Ba, adv. „now, here;" e. g. Uli ba! „look here!" 

Ba, v. a. „have, possess;" also „have-for-, have-on-" (as pity on 
one, see the next word); e. g. o ba he a-kala, „he has no 
money." As an aux. v., ba with the long form of the Infini- 
tive of another verb, or also with a verbal noun, expresses 
duty or obligation to do what is indicated by the Infinitive 
of the principal verb, as: ma ba tra gbal, „lhou must write," 
lit. „thou hast to write." 

Ba w'uni i-nel, „have mercy" or „pity upon one;" e. g. o ba- 
mi i-nel, „he had pity on me." 

Ba w'uni tr'el, „be a matter to one, concern one;" e. g. mono 
tra ba tr'ei-i? Yao, mine tra ba tr'el; „does it concern 
thee?" „Yes, it concerns me." 

Baf, v. a. „make" (as a farm), „cultivate, clear" (as land for a 
farm); e. g. o ko baf a-tof, „he goes to clear land for a 
farm." 

Bal, o-, pi. a-, n. „king"; e. g. o-bal ka an-tof, „the king of 
the country." 

Bal, ra-, pi. tra-, n. ,.kingdom, government, office of a king;" 
e. g. ra-bal-r'ori, „his kingdom." 

Bak, v. impers. „be hard, be trying;" e. g. pa bak he, be ma 
memar o-fino, „it will not be hard, if thou doest try well." 
It also serves to express the adv. „hard!y". as: pa bak ri 
mo o futia an-nesam-h'oh, „he hardly saved his life there," 
lit. „it was hard there when he saved his life." It is the 
short form of bSki. 

Bak, v. inch, and n. „get" or „be strong; get old, grow up, 
grow; come to the full lime" (as applied to pregnancy); e. g. 
I bak ton, „I got old now," — o kasi bak, „he will not 
grow" (as a child). 

Bak, ka-, n. „strength, hardness, firmness; age;" e. g. ka-bak- 
ka-lsi, „its hardness" (as of wood); ka-bak-k'oh, „his age." 

Bak ra-for, ka-, n. comp. „boldness, audacity, impudence, want 

10* 



— 148 — 

of modesty;" lit. ^strength (as regards, or of) the eye;" 

e. g. o ba ka-bak ra-for, „he is bold," lit. „he has boldness." 
Bak, adj. „lasting"; e. g. ra-ru ra-bak tabana, „a world lasting 

for ever." 
Bak, j v. rel. „be strong for-on-with-, be heavy on-" (as a sick- 
Baki, J ness on a person); „be older than-;" e. g. o baki-mi 

o-tan, he is a little older than I." Short form also: „get 

strong for-, get heavy upon-, be trying for-." 
Baka, o-, pi. a-, n. „one of the Baka nation." See Pref. § 4. d. 
Bakar, adj. „strong, firm, fast;" (rad. bak.) E. g. o fofa r'im ra- 

bakar, „he spoke with a strong voice." 
Bakar, o-, adj. but used adverbially, „fa6t, firm, firmly, tight." 

See an ex. under lih, v. a. 
Bakar, v. rel. n. (rad. bak) „be strong, be firm, be fast" (as a 

post etc.); „be hard" (as wood); e. g. ak'antr ka bakar, „the 

post is firm." The suffix is rather redundant. 
Bakas, v. caus. (rad. bak), „make strong, strengthen" (as the 

heart, or body); „make heavy;" e. g. o b£kas ka-but-ka-mi, 

= o bakas-mi ka-but, „he strengthened, my heart," = „he 

encouraged me." 
Bakas an'umpal na- ('a-), ..strengthen the soul of-, refresh one's 

soul;" e. g. o bakas an'umpal-'a-mi, „he refreshes my soul." 
Bakasne, v. caus. and refl. (rad. bak), „strengthen oneself, refresh 

oneself" (as by food etc.); also „ encourage oneself" (with or 

without ka-but, „heart"); e. g. o bakasne, „he encouraged 

himself." 
Bakasne ma-der, „refresh one's own body, recruit one's own 

health;" e. g. o bakasne ma-der, „he refreshed his body." 
Bake, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „wharf, landing-place, port." From bake, 

„go on shore, land." 
Bake Loko, n. prop. „The town Port Loko." See Pref. § 4. c. 
Baki, v. rel. long form of bak, which see above. 
Baki, adj. „strong, hard; heavy, serious" (as a palaver); e. g. 

tr'el tra-baki, „ a serious matter;" „grievous" (as an illness); 

„great" (as a battle); ..laborious" (as work); e. g. ma-pant 

ma-baki, „hard work;" „old" (of rational objects). 



— 149 — 

Baki, o-, adj. but used adverbially, „strongly"; e. g. ari-fef ua 

fen o-b£ki, „lhe wind blows strongly." 
Baki, v. impers. „be hard, be trying;" e. g. o baki, „it is hard." 
Baki, v. impers. a. „be hard for-, be trying for-;" e. g. o baki- 

ko tra yo-tsi, „it was hard for him to do it." 
Baki, v. n. „be strong" (as wood, or tide); „be heavy" (as a 

load, or palaver); „be hard" or „ stale" (as bread); „be old" 

(of anim. objects only); „be sad, be distressing" (as news); 

e. g. am'antr ma baki tenon, „the tide is strong to day." 
Baki ra-for, adj. comp. „bold, impudent, wanting modesty;" e. g. 

w'uni baki ra-for, „an impudent person" 
Baki, am-, n. „the old (people);" also „the dead", or „the 

manes, the shades;" lit. „the old ones." See Pref. § 12, a. 

and cf. the Hebr. n)ty DJ> Hez. 26, 20. 
Bal, v. a. „drive away, expel, drive;" e. g. 'a bal-ko, „they 

drove him away." 
Bal-bal, v. freq. a. (rad. bal), „pursue after, chase, drive all about. 

drive far away; persecute;" e. g. 'a bal-bal-ko o-bah, „they 

pursued hotly after him." 
Bal-bal, kg-, n. verb. „act of pursuing after, chasing; persecu- 
tion;" e. g. ka-bal-bal-k'on o-sem, „his chasing the animal." 
Bala. v. inch. (rad. bal), „get married, marry" (of females); e. g. 

0-bera o poh bala, „the woman has got married." 
Balai, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „basket"; e. g. ka-balai ka-bana, „ a large 

basket." 
Balane, v. prob. caus. and refl., or spont. (rad. bal), ,.be like." 

Often followed by: mo- „as"; e. g. ra balane mo a-bok. „it 

is like a snake." 
Balane mo (ho), ,,be like as, resemble;" e. g. ra balane mo ho 

a-bok, „it resembles a snake." 
Balane, ra-, pi. e-, n. „likeness, representation, picture;" e. g. 

ra-balane-r'oh, „his likeness." 
Balma, a-, pi. e-, n. „country-knife, dagger;" e. g. o ba a-balma, 

„he has a dagger." 
Bamp, a-, pi. e-, n. „bird"; e. g. a-bamp a-fino, „a fine bird" 



— 150 — 

Ban, v. a. „pain, cause pain to-, hurt;" e. g. ka-sam ka ban- 
mi, „the sore pains me." 

Ban, v. n. „ be angry, be cross" (habitually so) ; „ache, ail;" also 
„be hot" (as the sun); e. g. ra-bomp-ra-mi ra ban, „my head 
aches;" — ow'uni owe o ban, „this person is cross." 

Ban, adj. ,.angry, cross; painful, severe;" e. g. w'rini ban, „an 
angry person." 

Ban, o-, adj. but used as an adv. „severely, hotly, sharply, pain- 
fully." Cf. yo-w'uni o-baft, under Y. 

Ban, v. a. „fetch"; e. g. ban a-tis, „fetch a knife." 

Ban, ra-, n. „anger, indignation, wrath;" e. g. ra-ban'-d'on, 
„his wrath." 

Ban, ka-, n. „the sea, as opposed to dry land;" ro-ban, „at sea." 

Bana, v. n. „be large, be big, be great;" e. g. mine bana, „I 
am great." 

Bana, adj. „large, big, great; heavy" (as a tornado); e. g. o-na 
y-b^na, „a large cow." 

Bana, o-, adj. but used adverbially, „greatly, much;" applied to 
sewing „with large stitches," e. g. o sot o-bana, „he sews 
with large stitches." 

Bana, v. rel. (rad. ba), „have-for-, carry-for-;" e. g. o bana-ko 
k'ota, „he has cloth for him." 

Bana, v. rel. (rad. ban), „fetch for-;" e. g. bana-mi a-tis, ..fetch 
me a knife." 

Banane, v. rel. and refl. „have with oneself, carry with oneself;" 
e. g. o banane an kala, „he carried the money with himself." 

Bani, v. a. „redeem, ransom;" e. g. o bani-mi ka 'ra-trar, „he 
redeemed me from slavery." 

Bani, ka-, n. verb. „act of redeeming, redemption;" e. g. ka- 
bani-k'on, ,.his redemption." 

Banka, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „temporary hut in a farm of a conical 
form, the roof reaching down to the ground." It is used 
to cook under, and superior to, and higher than the one 
called a-gbom. Also „any rude round hut in a farm;" and 
also „the form of an annular eclipse," about which see the 
Temne Diet. 



— 151 

Ban'sa, for bariasa, v. caus. and inch. (rad. ban), „get angry, be 
angry" (occasionally so), lit. „get angered," or „get made 
angry;" e.g. o-bal o ban'sa, „the king got angry." Applied 
to the sea „roar, rage." 

Ban'sa, v. freq. and caus. (rad. ban), „pain, hurl, cause pain to; 
ail;" e. g. an'antr na bansa he kg, „the fire did not hurl 
him." 

Ban'sa, ka-, n. „anger" (occasional); „pain" ; e. g. ka-ban'sa- 
k'on, „his anger." Applied to the sea: „roaring, raging," 
= the Hebr. FJJJT Jon. 1, 15. 

Ban'sane, v. impers. freq. or intens. caus. and refl. (rad. bah), 
„grieve, displease to, pain, make angry," lit. „cause pain to 
oneself;" e. g. pa ban'sane-ha, „it grieved them." 

Ban'sar, v. caus. inch, and rel. (rad. bah), „get angered at-," or 
„about-," or „\vith-, be angry Avith - . be displeased," or 
„vexed with-," or „about-;" e. g. Pa Sori o ban'sar-mi, I tsi 
fofar-ko, ,,Mr. Sori is angry with me; I shall speak to him." 

Bant, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „bone"; e. g. ka-bant ka-lol, „a small 
bone." 

Bantra, a-, pi. e-, n. „bow; arch;" also „spring" (of a gunlock); 
fig. „war". See Tradit. pag. 4. 

Bap, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „ country axe, hatchet." 

Bap, v. a. „meet, meet with, find;" e. g. I bap-ko ro-r'on, „I 
met him on the road." 

Bap o-fino, „fare well, meet with a happy lot, be well off;" e. g. 
o bap o-fino ro-krifi, „he met with a good lot in Hades." 

Bapar, v. rel. (rati, bap), „be present;" e. g. o bapar ho tenon, 
„he was not present to day." 

Bar, a-, pi. e-, n. „species of hawk white and black living of 
fish." 

Bar, v. a. „add, put more, increase" (as wages); e. g. I tsi bar 
ah-ram-'a-mu, „1 shall increase thy wages." 

Bar, v. n. and aux. „go on, continue." As an aux. it ex- 
presses continuance of the exercise of the energy indicated 
by the principal verb, or a progress of the same, as: o bar 
ko sap, „he went on to flog him," = „he flogged him more." 



— 152 — 

It also expresses the adv. „more;" or also „moie and more"; 
in the latter case it is generally followed by gbo, „but". 
When it is repeated and followed by gbo, it serves to ex- 
press the words: „the more — , the more — ." It is gener- 
ally construed with the short form of the Infinitive, some- 
times also with the verb. noun. See Proverb 7, p. 100. 

Bar, * a-, pi. e-, n. „bar, iron bar; country bar worth about 

Ba>a, J 2s." Derived from the Span. bara. 

Bari, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „twin"; e.g. o kom tra-bari, „she brought 
forth twins." 

Basar, v.rel. a. „continue, continue with-, go on with-, persevere 
in-, with-;" prob. rel. form of an obs. bas; e. g. basar aka- 
ka>an, „go on with the reading." 

B&sar, v.rel. n. „continue, persevere;" e.g. o basar he, „he does 
not continue." 

Basara, v. rel. (properly doubly rel.), „continue for-, go on with- 
for-, persevere for-; persevere with-" or „in- for-," i. e. „go 
on with" (a thing) „for" (another, or) „in behalf of" (another); 
e. g. basara-mi ama-pant ame, „go on with this work for 
me." 

Bat, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „water-brook, brook," e. g. ro-bat, „at 
the brook." 

Bat, adj. „early"; e. g. ka ar'etr ra-bat o der, „al an early sun 
he came," i. e. soon, when the sun was not up long get. 

Bat, adv. „in the morning, early;" also spec, in the sense of 
„fully" when used with the verb sok, „dawn"; e. g. o der 
bat, „he came early." 

Bat, ka-, or ra-, pi. tra-, n. „morning". The pi. is seldom 
used. E. g. ra-bat ra-fino, „a fine morning." 

Batr, v. a. „seize, take hold of, apprehend;" e. g. batr-ko, 
„seize him." 

Batr, a-, pi. e-, n. „a small young palm-tree." 

Be, adv. „whcn"; e. g. be I fi-e, „when I die." 

Be, conj. „if"; e. g. be o der he etc., „if he does not come etc." 

Be, n. „bey, king" or „chief". 

Be, adv. in form, but often used in the sense of an adj. „all, 



— 153 — 

whole, every; all kind, all sort, all sorts;" as applied to 

place „all over, every where;" e. g. an-fam be, „ali the 

people;" — ey'etr be, „all sorts of things." 
Be', abbr. of bek, 1 ) v. impers. „be sufficient, be enough, suffice;" 

e. g. pa be' he, „it is not enough." 
Be', abbr. of bek, 1 ) v. n. „arrive, reach, be sufficient, be enough. 

suffice;" e. g. o ta be' he, „he has not yet arrived." 
Befat, v. a. „comfort, soothe, make quiet" (as a child); e. g. 

o befat-ko, „he comforted him." 
Bel, ra-, pi. tra-, n. „debt" (receivable and payable) ; e. g. o ba 

he ra-beT, „he has no debt" (to pay). 
Belbal, a-, pi. e-, n. „Bible". From the English. 
Bek, v. a. „arrive at, come to, reach;" e. g. arafa ra bek aka- 

petr, „the army reached the town." 
Bek, v. n. „reach, arrive, come, come near;" e. g. o poh bek, 

„he has arrived." 
Beka, v. a. „amount to, make, be worth;" also „call, hold as;" 

e. g. ah-gbata aha beka e-sas, „the 3 rd . mat," lit. „the mat 

which makes three." See next word. 
Beka w'uni ra-yem, „call one a liar, give the lie to one;" e. g. 

o beka-mi ra-yem, „he called me a liar." 
Beki, v. a. (rad. bek), „be fit for-, be proper for-, be suitable 

for-, suit;" e. g. am'olo arae ma beki ama-pant, „this amount 

suits the work." 
Beki, v. n. (rad. bek), „be fit, be sufficient, be enough, suffice; 

e. g. am'olo ame ma beki, „this price is sufficient. Long 

form of bek. 
Beki, adj. „fit, proper, suitable" (as a person, or as time); suf- 
ficient, enough; worthy; due;" e. g. w'uni beki, „a worthy 

person;" — a-ram a-beki, „a suitable reward;" — ey'etr 

e-beki, sufficient materials." 
Bela,.a-, pi. e, n. „sail" (as of a canoe or ship); e. g. am-bela 



1) These abbr. forms are used before the negative adv. he 
,not." 



— 154 — 

a-bana, „the main sail," lit. „the large sail;" — w'an, yisa 

ri am-bela, „boy, hoist the sail there." 
Belaii, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „side, part, region" (as of a house, or 

country); also „ place, stead;" e. g. ka ka-belan-k'oh, „in his 

stead. " 
Bern, ra-, pi. tra-, n. „ hedge-hog, grass-cutter," so called because 

this animal cuts grass. It is a kind of urchin, resembling 

the porcupine; but has only strong hairs instead of quills. 

It lives of rice and groundnuts. 
Bempa, v. a. „make, repair, put in order; perform the usual" 

or „ necessary ceremonies for (a thing);" e. g. o bempa 

aka-fantr, „he made the bed." 
Bempa, ka-, n. verb. „act of making, etc.;" e. g. ka-bempa 'ra- 

rii, „the making of the world." 
Bempana, v. rel. (rad. bempa), „make-for-; make-with-, make- 

of-" (as a table of wood); e. g. o bempana-mi a-mesa, „he 

made a table for me." 
Bempane, v. rel. and refl. „make for" or „to oneself;" e. g. o 

bempane a-mesa, „he made a table for himself." 
Ben, a-, pi. e-, n. „board"; e. g. a-beh a-boli, „a long board." 
Beha, ra-, pi. na-, n. „rope" (especially the wooden country 

one), „any rope, string;" e. g. ra-beha ra-boli, „a long rope." 
Beha ra ka-but, ra-, pi. na-beha na tra-but, „heart-string." 
Bene, v. a. „keep, preserve;" e. g. o bene o-sem, „he preserves 

the meat;" also ,bury"; e. g. 'a bene-ko, „they buried him." 
Bene w'uni o-tot, 1 „keep one well;" e. g. o bene-ko o-tot, „he 
Bene w'uni tot, ' keeps him well." 
Bene w'uni ra-tr'el, „keep one from harm;" e. g. o bene-mi ra- 

tr'ei, „he keeps me from harm." 
Bene w'uni ra-tr'e! 6 tr'el, „keep one from every harm;" e. g. 

K'liru o bene-mi ra-trel 6 trel, „God keeps me from every harm." 
Benena, v. rel. (rad. bene), „prepare-for-, make-ready for-" (as 

food for one); e. g. o benena-mi r'a ra-di, „he prepared some 

food for me." 
Benene, v. refl. a. „prepare, make ready," lit. „prepare-for one- 
self" (as things for a journey); e. g. I benene ey'etr-'e-mi, 



— 155 — 

„I made my things ready." Also „prepare oneself for-, make 
oneself ready for-" (as for a journey); e. g. o benene ra- 
tsik, „he makes himself ready for a journey." 

Benene, v. refl. n. „ prepare oneself, make oneself ready;" e. g. 
I pori benene, „I have made myself ready." 

Benene, ka-, n. verb. „act of making oneself ready, act of pre- 
paring oneself, preparation;" e. g. ka-benene-k'on, „his pre- 
paration." 

Bentr, v. a. „prevent, hinder;" e. g. o bentr-mi tra kg ro-kamp, 
„he prevented me from going to Freetown;" also „withhold- 
from-" (as money from one); e.g. o bentr-mi ah-k'ala-'a-mi, 
„he withholds my money from me." 

Bep, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „spoon"; e. g. ka-bep ka-bana, „a large 
spoon." 

Ber, ma-, n. „intoxicating liquor of any kind;" also „palmwine"; 
e. g. ma-ber ma-fino, „good palmwine." 

Bera, adj. „fema!e"; e. g. w'an bera, „a girl," lit. „female child." 

Bera, g-, pi. a-, n. „ woman, female;" e. g. o-bera o-fino, „a fine 
womau." 

Bera o-bi, o-, pi. a-bera a-bi, n. „ black female." 

Bera o-fera, o-, pi. a-bera a-fera, n. „ white female." 

Bes, v. a. „dig" ; e. g. bes a-bi, „dig a pit." 

Bes, v. n. „dig, make a hole," or „grave"; e. g. tse ri bes, 
„do not dig there." 

Bes, ka-, n. verb. „act of digging, etc.;" e. g. ka-bes-k'on, „his 
digging." 

Besa, v. rel. (rad. bes), „dig for-, dig-for-; dig with-, dig-wit h-;" 
e. g. besa-mi a-bi, „dig a hole for me." 

Besa, adj. „belonging to digging," as; y'etr e-besa, „digging 
tools." 

Bi, adj. „black, dark;" e. g. kota ka-bi, „black cloth." 

Bi, a-, pi. e-, or tra-, n. „pit, hole;" e. g. a-bi a-boloh, „a 
deep pit." 

Bia, v. inch. (rad. bi), ,.get dark, get black;" e. g. ka-rintr ka 
bia, „the sky gets dark." 

Bia, v. impers. inch. „get dark"; e. g. pa bia, „it gets dark." 



— 156 — 

Bil, a-, pi. e-, or Ira-, n. ,,canoe"; a-bil a-poto, „a ship," lit. 

„a white man's canoe." 
Bilin, a-, pi. e-, n. „mud-sofa, joined to a wall at the inside of 

a house, any sofa;" e.g. a-bilih a-bana, „a large mud-sofa." 
Bitin, a-, pi. e-, n. „drum"; e. g. o fer am-bitih, „he beats 

the drum." 
Bitra, a-, pi. e-, n. „bottle"; e. g. a-bitra a-tsin, „an empty 

bottle." 
Bo, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „cake, country bread" (as made of rice flour 

and honey; e. g. ka-bo ka-fino, „fine country-bread." 
Bo, a-, pi. e-, or tra-, or also o- in the sing, and tra- in the 

pi., n. „a species of antelope of the size of a goat, black, 

and having long retroverted horns," also called: „bushgoat." 

Between its horns it has long red hairs. 
Bof, ka-, n. „dust" (as in the street); e.g. ka-bof ka-lai, „much 

dust." 
Bol, a-, pi. e-, n. „servant" ; e. g. a-bol a-bera, „a maid-servant." 
Bols, adj. „fai.tened"; e.g. o-na o-fet o-bols, „a fattened calf." 
Bok, v. n. ..weep, cry, lament;" e. g. ow'ahet o tra bok, „the 

child is crying." 
Bok, v. a. „weep for-, bemoan, bewail, lament;" e. g. tra ha 

ko bok-ko, „let them go and bewail him." 
Bok, a-, pi. e-, n. „snake, serpent;" e. g. a-bok a-las, „a bad 

snake." 
Boka, a-, pi. e-, n. „bill-hook" ; e. g. a-boka a-bana, „a large 

bill-hook." 
Bol, a-, pi. e-, n. „country made pot, earthen pot" (for cooking); 

e. g. a-bol a-flno, „a fine earthen pot." 
Bol, v. a. „prolong" (as life). See the next word. 
Bol ah-hesam, „prolong life, have long life;" e. g. kariko ma 

bol ah-hesam! „mayest thou have long life!" 
Bolam, o-, pi. a-, n. „one of the Bolom nation, Bolom." 
Boli, adj. „long"; e.g. ra-beha ra-boli, „a long rope." 
Boli, o-, adj. but used adverbially, „long, a long time; a long 

way, a far way off, far away;" e. g. o kone o-boli, „he went 

far away." 



— 157 — 

Bolo, a-, pi. e-, n. „throat"; e. g. o wop-ko ro-bolo, „he held 

him by the throat." 
Bom, adj. „female"; e. g. an-fam a-bom. „the women, the 

females." 
Bom, o-, pi. a-, n. ,. woman, female;" also „mother, madam." 
For the pi. form a-bom they also use: bom-na, placing the 
prefix behind the noun, which is sometimes done with a few 
nouns. 
Bom, a-, pi. e-, n. „sheath, scabbard;" e. g. am-bom na an- 

gbato, „the sheath of the cutlass." 
Bom, v. n. „ease nature, ease oneself; dung;" e. g. o ko bom, 

„he went to ease nature." 
Boma, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „grave"; e. g. 'a bes ka-boma, „they dig 

a grave." 
Bomp, ra-, pi. tra-, n. „head"; also „chapler"; e. g. ra-bomp- 

r'oh, „his head." 
Boh, ra-, pi. tra-, n. „river"; e. g. ra-bon' da-bana, „a great 

river;" for ra-boh ra-bana. 
Bona, a-, pi. e-, or tra-, n. „nation;" e. g. a-bona a-bana, „a 

great nation." 
Bondo, am-, n. „the Bondo institution;" also „the ceremonies 

connected with it." See Pref. § 17. 
Bona, a-, pi. ma-, n. „kindness, favour" (shown and received); 
„benevolence, grace, mercy;" e. g. o soto ma-bona, „he 
received kindness." 
Bone, v. impers. a. ,. gladden, rejoice, cheer;" as: pa bone-ko, 

„he is glad," lit. „it gladdens him." 
Bone, v. n. „move"; e.g. ara-ru be ra bone, „the whole world 

moves." 
Bone; ma-, n. „joy, gladness, happiness;" e. g. ma-bone-m'oh, 

„his gladness." 
Bone-tr'ei, ka-, n. coinp. „haughtiness, presumption;" e. g. ka- 

bone-tr'el-k'oh, „his haughtiness." 
Bont, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „navel, navel-string." 
Bontr, v. a. „call, name, mention;" e. g. bontr arn'olg-ma-tsi, 
„mention the price of it." 



— 158 — 

Bontr an'es na-, v. comp. „guess", lit. „call the name of-;" 

e. g. be ma bontr an'es na ar'aka ara yi etc. „if thou doest 

guess the thing, which is etc." 
Bontr w'uni an'es, „call one by name, call one's name;" e. g. 

o bontr-ko an'es, „he called him by his name." 
Bontr, a-, or i-. pi. ma-, n. „ smell, scent, odour" (good or bad); 

e. g. i-bontr i-flno, „a good scent." 
Bontra, v. rel. (rad. bontr), „call-for-, mention-," or „name-fo-, 

name-for-" (as the name of an object to one); e. g. bontra- 

mi an'es-n'oh, „ mention me his name." 
Bontras, v. freq. a. (rad. bontr), „call over" (as names), „name; 

praise;" e. g. na bontras am'es-ma-hah, „they called over 

their names." 
Bopar, a-, pi. e-, n. „leaf"; e. g. e-bopar eye, „lhese leaves." 
Bor, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „ domestics, people who live under one's 

control; company;" also „crew" (as of a boat); e. g. ka-bor 

ka am-bil, „the crew of the canoe." The pi. is used of the 

domestics of a plurality of masters. 
Bdrko, o-, pi. a-, n. „damsel; a young woman" (married or not); 

e. g. o-borko o-fino, „a fair damsel." 
Bosne, v. n. „long, have a great desire." Prob. a refl. form of 

an obs. bos; e. g. o bosne traka ow'an-k'on, „he longs for 

his son." 
Bosne, a-, pi. e, n. „longing, auxious desire:" e. g. am-bosne- 

n'on, „his longing," 
Bot, v. n. „get sweet, be sweet, be delicious, be savoury." Short 

form of boti. E. g. ari-saka ane ha bot he, „this palaver 

sauce is not savoury." See the Note after wos, v. n. 
Bgt, ka-, n. „sweetness, deliciousness;" e. g. ka-bgt ka e-nak, 

„the deliciousness of the rice." 
Bot, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „ball, lump" (as of soap); „pill" (as of 

medicine); e. g. tra-bot tra-sas, „three pills." 
Botar, v. rel. (rad. bot), Jove, like," lit. „be sweet toward-;" 

e.g. o botar-ko, „he loves him." 
Botar, ma-, n. „love"; e. g ma-bdt«ir ma K'uru, „the love of 

God." 



— 159 — 

Bdti, v. n. (rad. bot), „be sweet, be savoury, be delicious" (as 
food); e. g. an-saka afte na bdti, „this palaver sauce is de- 
licious." 

Bdti-di, adj. comp. „delicious to eat;" e. g. y'etr e-bdti-di, „de- 
licious food." 

Bdti-som, adj. comp. „delicious to devour;" e. g. r'a ra-bdti-som, 
„something delicious to devour." 

Bdti-tral, o-, adj. but used adverbially, „sweetly", lit. „sweet 
to hear" (applied to singing or music); e. g. ah-fet arie na 
len o- boti-tral, „ these children sing sweetly." See rami 
below. 

Botr, v. a. „put, put down, place, set; fix" (as time); e. g. botr- 
ni rayer, „put it aside." 

Botra, v. rel. (rad. botr), „put-for-, place-for-;" e. g. botra-mi-ri 
ro-k'Qma, „put it in the box for me." 

Botra w'uni a-tdnto, „put an allurement" or „enticement for 
one, put a snare for one;" e. g. *a bdtra-ko a-tonto, „lhey 
put a snare for him." 

Botra w'uni yanfa, „act deceitfully against one," lit. „put deceit- 
fulness" or „a trick for one;" e. g. o bdtra-mi yanfa', „he 
acted deceitfully against me." 

Botrar, v. rel. (rad. botr), „ put-to-, put-at-, set-to-" (as the mind 
to a person or thing); e. g. bdtrar-ni am-mera, „set the mind 
to it," = „take care of it." 

Botrar am-mera ka—,) „set the mind to-, take care of-, mind, 

Botrar' am-mera ro-, ' set the heart to-;" e. g. o botrar am- 
mera rohoh, „he lakes care of him." 

Botrar w'uni am-mera, „put the mind to one, take care of one;" 
e. g. o botrar-mi am-mera: „he lakes care of me." 

Boya, v. a. „make a present to-with- or of-, present - with -. 
make a present with- or of-," as: I boya-mu-tsi, „I make 
thee a present of it;" — o boya-mi ow'ir, „he made me 
a present with the goat;" — o boya-ko ka Pa Sip, „he 
made the Leopard a present of him." 

Boya, a-, pi. e-, n. „present, gift;" e. g. a-boya a-fino, „a fine 
present." 



— 160 — 

Biiko, v. n. „bathe, wash oneself;" e. g. I ko buko, „I go to 
bathe." 

Buma, a-, pi. e-, n. „young tender shoots," or „leaves" (as 
from roots left in the ground), „verdure, herb, green;" e.g. 
e-biima e-la! e yi ri, „there is much green there." 

Bumar. v. rel. (rad. bum), „watch over, mind, guard, take care 
of;" e. g. o burnjir ak'or, „he watches over the farm." 

Bun, v. n. and aux. „miss, make a mistake." As an aux. it 
serves to express the adv. „almost, nearly," as: o bun ko 
dif, „he almost killed him." 

Bun, ka-, n. verb. „act of missing, mistake;" ka-biin fi, „almosl 
dying." 

Bundas, v. caus. (rad. bunda), „make large, enlarge, make great;" 
fig. „magnify, glorify;" e. g o bundas an-set-h'oii, „he en- 
larged his house." 

Bunt, a-, pi. e-, n. „cloud"; e. g. a-bunt a-bi, „a dark cloud." 

Burap, adj. „short"; e. g k'antr ka-biirap, „a short stick." 

But, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „heart" (as the organ; also used figura- 
tively as the seat of courage, etc.); e. g. ka-but-k'on, „his 
heart." 

Butu, a-, pi. e-, n. „bag" ; also „pillow"; e. g. a-biitu a-yofat, 

„a soft pillow." 

D. 
D', prcf. insep. and indef. „a, an;" c. g. d'im, „a word," for 

da-im. 
Da, prep. poss. „of"; it is a euph. form of: ra; e. g. ar'6n'-da- 

su, „our road;" -ar'on' da K'iiru, „the way of God." See 

the Note at the end of this letter. 
Da, pref. indef., euph. form of ra, „a an;" e. g. r'on' da-fino, 

„a good road." 
Da-tsi, pr. dem. log. „that", being a euph. form of: ra-tsi; e.g. 

ar'on' da-tsi, „that road." 
Data, postp. „below, beneath," being a euph. form of. rata; e. g. 

ro-tan' data, „under the root," for ro-tank rata. This form 

is used after nouns terminating in n, or nk, when the g or 

gk is cut off. 



— 1G1 — 

Dalron, postp., euph. form of ratron, „in the middle, amongst." 
It is used after nouns terminating in n, when the g is cut 
off. E. g. o tram a ka ar'on' dalron, „he stood in the middle 
of the road;" — ka tra-tsen' datroh, „ amongst the hills." 

Dayer, postp., euph. form of rayer, „near, close to, at" or „hv 
the side;" e. g. o tas ka 'ra-bon' dayer, = o tas ro-bon' 
dayer, „he passed close to the river;" — o tas ro-r'on' dayer, 
„he passed by the side of the road." It is used after nouns 
terminating in h, when the g is cut off. See the Note at 
the end of this letter. 

De, or re, = der, v. n. and aux. „come"; e. g. o de he nan. 
„he did not come." As an aux. it is construed with the 
long and with the short form of the Infinitive. De is a euph. 
form of: re, which see ; e. g. o de tra gbal, „he comes in 
order to write." See more under the form re; what has 
been stated there, applies also here. 

De, adv. „no". It is pronounced with a strong impetus. E. g. 
de, I nank fe ko, „no, I did not see him." 

De, conj. „and"; e.g. pa-la de e-yoka, „rice and cassadas." 

Der, v. n. and aux. = de, or: re, „come"; e. g. o der romi, 
„he came to me." It is construed in the same way as: 
de, which see. 

Der, ka-, n. verb. ,,act of coming, coming;" e. g. ka-der-k'gn, 
„his coming." 

D'er, pi. s'er, n. „face"; ro-d'er, „at the face." 

Der, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „body, skin." The sing, is seldom 
used, the pi. being used for it; e. g. ma-der-m'on, „his body." 

D'er, n. „place"; def. form: od'er, „the place;" e. g. d'er o- 
ffno, „a good place." 

D'er 6 d'er, „everywhere, anywhere;" e. g. K'uru o yi d'er 
6 d'er, „God is everywhere." 

Di, v. a. „eat", also „take" (as medicine); „wear away, wear 
off" (as a cutlass a grinding-stone); e. g. o di e-trol, „he 
took medicine." 
Di, v. n. „eat"; e. g. di ri, „eat of it," lit. „ea1 there;" di ka-, 
„eat out of-." 

Temne - Worterbuch. 1 1 



— 162 — 

Di, adj. „eating"; e. g. r'a ra-di, „something to eat." 

Di, ka-, n. verb. „acl of eating, an eating, meal;" e. g. ka-di 

ka-bat, „a breakfast." 
Di, pr. obj. = ri, of which it is a euph. form, „it"; e. g. tse 

gbon'-di, „do not touch it." See the Note at the end of 

this letter. 
Di, adv. loc. „there". It is a euph. form of ri, used before n 

and before ri, when the g is dropped. E. g o won di, „he 

was long there." 
Dia, pr. emph. „it, this," being a euph. form of: rla; e. g. ar'on' 

da ro-Ma-lal dia-re, „this is the road to Malal." 
Di-a, adv. loc. emph. „there"; e. g. ro ari-gbalari iia gbope, di-a 

o botr ara-bomp-r'ori, „ where the rock was rugged, there 

he put his head;" — di-a o soto-rii, „there he got it." 
Di-ari, adv. loc. abs, „there, at that place," it is a euph. form 

of: ri-aii; e. g. di-ari I soto-rii, „ there I got it." (Cf. -A 

under N.) 
Dif, v. n. „ kill, commit murder;" also „kill beef; be fatal" (as 

an illness); e. g. o poii dif-i? „has he killed beef?" 
Dif, v. a. „kill, execute, murder;" also „prove fatal to" (as a 

sickness); e. g. 'a dif-ko, „they killed him." 
Difa, v. rel. „kill-to-, kill-for-; kill-with-;" e. g. o difa-mi an- 

troko, „he killed the fowl to me," = „he killed me the 

fowl. " 
Dim, v. a. „destroy, ruin;" e. g. 'a dim aka-petr, „they destroyed 

the town." 
D'im, pi. s'im, n. „word, voice;" e. g. ad'im-r'ori, „his word;" 

D'im is a euph. form of: r'im. 
Dimse, v. n. „go out" (as fire); e. g. an'antr na dimse, „the 

fire went out." 
D'in, adj. num. „one", being a euph. form of r'in; e. g. r'on' 

d'in, „one way." 
Dinne, v. refl. (rad. dim) „ perish, get lost," lit. ^destroy one- 
self;" e. g. ka-lome dinne, „the sheep got lost." 
Dinne, ka-, n. verb. „act of perishing, perishing; destruction, 

ruin, perdition;" e. g. ka-dhme-k'gn, „his perdition." 



— 163 — 

Dio, adj. „right" (in opposition to left); e.g. ka-tra ka-dio, „the 

right hand." 
Dio, ka-, n. „the right" (hand); also „the South." 
Dir, ka-, pi. Ira-, n. „mortar" (as to beat rice in); e. g. ka-dir 

ka-bana, „a large mortar." 
Dira, v. n. „sleep, go asleep;" e. g. ha ko dlra, „they went to 

sleep." 
Dis, adv. „yesterday"; e. g. o der dis, „he came yesterday." 
Dls, v. cans. (rad. di), „give-lo eat, feed;" e. g. e-bamp ha dis 

ah-fet-'a-hah, „the birds feed their young ones." 
Dis ra-fol, „yesterday evening, last evening;" e. g. o bek dis 

ra-fol, „he arrived last evening." 
Dis tratrak, „yesterday night," e. g. ha der dis tratrak, „they 

came yesterday night." 
Do-, prep. „into, in, at, to, from;" e. g. o Avon' do-set, „he 

went into the house." It is a euph. form of ro-, which see. 
Dokom, postp., euph. form of rokom, „on the top, upon;" e. g, 

o yi ro-tsen' dokom, „he is on the top of the hill;" — 

o yira ka ah-ron' dokom, „he lives on the top of the moun- 
tain." See the Note at the end of this letter. 
Don, pr. poss. „his, her." It is a euph. form of r'on; e. g. 

ra-ban'-d'oh, „his anger." 
D'or, n. „hunger"; def. form ad'or, „lhe hunger." It is a noun in 

ra-; e. g. d'or ra ba-mi, „I am hungry;" lit. „hunger has me." 
D'uba, n. „ink", = r'uba; e. g. d'uba ra-lai, „much ink;" def. 

form: ad'uba, „the ink " 
Duni, adj. „male", it is a euph. form of: r'uni; e. g. w'an diini, 

„a boy," lit. „a male child." 

Note. The euph. forms with d under the preceding letter are 
used after words terminating in h, when the g is dropped, 
as: r'on' da-fino, „a good road," for: r*oh ra-flno; — ar'on' 
da-tsi, „that road," for: ar'6n ra-tsi. 

E. 

E-, pref. def. and indef. „the"; e. g. e-tis, .,knives", or „the 
knives." 

ll* 



— 164 — 

E, pr. subj. „it; they;" e. g. ey'etr-'e-mi e dinne, my things 
are lost." 

E-, pref. emph. vow. to make nouns with the inseparable pref. 
y' definite, as: ey'etr, „the things," from: y'etr, „things". 
Cf. Pref. § 22. b. 

-E? suff. indirect inter, used at the end of a proposition, if 
already an inter, adverb precedes; e. g. re man ka-e? „where 
art thou going to?" 

-E, part. expl. often used at the end of conditional propositions. 
It is of a mere expl. nature, used with sentences depending 
on the conj. be, „if", and on the adv. ma, me, mo, „when", 
and on: be, „\\hen"; e. g. be o-bera o nesa he o-wos- 
k'on-e etc., „if the woman does not respect her husband etc." 
But it is also used with nouns not only in the Voc. case, 
but also otherwise. Sometimes it is added to the suffix-ari 
in addition. (Cf. the suff. -an in loco.) It is also some- 
times affixed to adverbs, or at the end of exclamatory pro 
positions depending on: Iro! „ho\v!" orko! „what!" or after 
the calling of names, when it serves to indicate the Vocative. 
They also often use it with obligative and participial propo- 
sitions. 

-E, this form is sometimes used for the preceding one in the 

capacity of an expletive particle. 
E, prep. poss. „of"; e. g. ey'etr-'e-mi, „my things," lit. „the 
things of me." 

'E-mi, pr. poss. „my", lit. „of me." See the preceding word. 

'E-hari, pr. poss. „their", lit. „of them;" e.g. ey'etr-'e-nan, „their 
things." 

Evan, pr. dem. rem. „those"; e.g. ey'etr cyan, „those things." 

Eye, pr. rel „which"; e. g. ey'etr eye I soto, „the things which 
I got." 

Eye, pr. dem. prox. „these"; e.g. ey'etr eye, „these things." 

F. 

Fai, v. n. „be hot, have a burn, be burned;" e. g. 1 fai ro-tra, 
„I have a burn on the hand." 



— 165 — 

Fai, adj. „hot" (as water); „burnt" (as a farm); e. g. m'anlr 

ma-fai, ,,hot water." 
Fai, v. a. „cut one's throat, kill, slaughter, butcher;" e. g. *a fai- 

ko. „they cut his throat." 
Fak, a-, pi. e-, n. „skate" (fish). 
Fak, v. a. „throw down; fell" (as a tree); also „set up" (as a 

krifi for worship); e. g. o fak an-tis-'a-mi, „he threw down 

my knife." 
Faka, v. rel. „throw-to-, throw -unto-, throw-for-, let drop-" 

or „fall-for-" (as a child, or a thing to one); e. g. faka-mi 

ka-bo, „throw the bread to me." 
Falan, v. n. „escape from the grave by a sort of transmigration," 

(see Pref. § 10. b.)- Also „apostatize" (from a religion), 

„err from the right way" (in the Mohammedan sense of the 

word); fig. „be utterly disappointed in obtaining one's object;" 
e. g. o fcilah ka 'ra-mori, „he apostatized from Islamism." 
Fale, v. n. (rad. fai), „turn, turn away; be turned away," e. g. 

o fale rohdh, „he turned away from him." 
Fiili, v. a. „turn, move away, turn aside, remove, shove aside;" 

e. g. fali ak'an'r, „turn the stick aside." 
Falir, v. n. „fly"; e. g. am-bamp o falir o-boli rokom. „the bird 

soars high up." 
Falira, v. caus. „make to fly about, waft about, drive about" (as 

the wind chaff); e. g. ah-fef na falira e-fuk, „the wind walls 

the chaff about." 
Fam, a-, n. the pi, of w'uni, ,.person", which see. The sing. 

form o-fam, is nol much used; e, g. an-fam arie, „these 

persons," = „this people." 
Fam a-runi, a-, n. pi. „ males, men;" lit. „male persons." 
Fam a-bom, a-, n. pi. „females, women," lit. „female persons." 
Fanta, v. n. „lie down;" e. u. o ko fanta, „he went to lie down." 
Fant'r (for fantar), ka-, pi. tra-, n. „bed"; e. g. ka-fanl'r-k'oh, 

„his bed." 
Far- far, prob. adj. onom. ..making far -far." See Proverb. 0, 

pag. 99 about this word. 



— 166 — 

Farki, v. a. „despise, slight, set at nought; degrade;" e.g. o 

farki -ko, „he slighted him." 
Fas, adv. spec. „on a sudden, suddenly, all at once, at once" 

(as if a thing, on which one pulls, gives way at onre, or is 

torn off). It indicates quickness or suddennes of separation, 

and is used with wura, „take" or „pull out," and with gboti, 

„tear off;" e. g. o wura-ki ka ka-tra-k'on fas, „he pulled it 

(cloth) out of his hand on a sudden." 
Fatr, a-, pi. e-, n. „iron"; also „an iron cooking pot." 
Fatr, v. n. „be near, be close; come near, go near;" e. g. tse 

ri fatr. „do not go near there." 
Fatr, v. a. „go near to, come near to, approach, be close" or 

„near to;" e. g. o fatr-mi, „he is elose to me." 
Fatrane, v. recipr. „come near together, come close to each 

other, approach each other;" e. g. ma fatrane nan, „let us 

come near together." 
Fatrane, o-, pi. a-, n. „neigbbour, one living close to another," 

e. g. o-fatrane-ka-mi, „my neighbour." 
Fatrar, v. rel. n. „draw near;" e. g. ra-fi ra falrar, „death draws 

near." The suff. is rather redundant here. 
Fatrar, v. rel. a. „draw near to, approach, be near to;" e. g. 

fatrar-mi, „draw near to me." 
Fe, — - he, adv. „not"; e. g. vv'rini 6 w'uni o nam fe tsi, „no 

one saw it." This form is generally used after or before the 

letter m. Fe is to be considered as a euph. form of: he, 

which see below. 
Fef, a-, pi. e-, n. „wind, breeze;" e. g. ah-fef ha fen o-baki 

tenon, „the wind blows strongly to day." 
Fela, a-, pi. e-, n. „desire, longing, lust;" also „sexual desire" 

or „ desire for sexual commerce;" e. g. a-fela ha e-lop ha 

wop-mi, „I have a desire for fish," lit. „a desire of fish 

holds me." 
Fen, v- a. „blow, play" (as a wind-instrument); blow-on-, blow- 

into-;" e. g. o fen aka-su, „he blew the trumpet;" — 'a 

feh-ko e-kul. „they blew into his nostrils." 
Fen, v. n. „blow" (as the wind, or into some thing); e.g. o fen 



— 167 — 

ka e-kul-y'on, „he blew into his nostrils. Cf. also the ex. 
under a-fef above. 

Fer, v. n. „plav on a stringed instrument, make music;" e. g. 
o-lanba o tra fer, „the young man is playing on a stringed 
instrument." 

Fer, v. a. „play, strike" (as a stringed instrument); „beat" (as 
the drum); e. g. o-yeli owe o fer am-pankal o-fino. „this 
minstrel plays the cithern well;" — o-lanba o fer am-bitin, 
„the young man beats the drum." 

Fera, adj. „white, clean;" as applied to rice „deprived of the 
husks;" e. g. pa-la pa-fera, ,.clean rice." 

Fet, v. n. „be young; be tender" (as roots); „be fresh" (as palm- 
wine); „be new" (as the moon); e. g. o fet ras, „he is still 
young." 

Fet, adj. ,.young; tender" (as plants); e.g. e-y6ka o-fet, „tender" 
or „young cassadas." 

Fet, a-, pi. of w'ahet, which see. The sing, o-fet, is some- 
times used. 

Fetar, v. rel. (rad. fet), „make white, make clean" (as rice, or 
clothes); „clear up, make plain" (as a palaver); „cleanse. 
whitewash" (as a wall); „make to blush." (The natives being 
of a dark colour get a whitish appearance when made to blush. 
Thus if one is convinced of his guilt, after having denied it. 
by clear facts, and if those present scold him for it, he will 
blush). With am-mera, „clear one of a charge, justify." 
(Cf. next word). E. g. o fetar am-pa, „he cleared up the 
matter;" — 'a fetar-ko tenon, „they made him blush to day." 

Fetar am-mera ha w'uni, . „clear one of a charge, declare one's 

Fetar w'uni am-mera, ) innocence, acquit one. justify one." 
lit. „make clean one's heart;" e. g. 'a fetar-ko am-mera 
tenon, „they cleared him of the charge to day." 

Fi, v. n. „die, be dead;" as applied to the phases of the moon, 
„be done" or „over, die away, be in the last quarter"; 
hence also „be new"; e. g. o fi ar'cm' da-fino, „he died 
happily," lit. „he died the good road;" — be an of ha fi. 
„when the moon is over." 



— 108 — 

Fi o-tot, „die happily, „lit. „die well." 

Fi. adj. „dead", as applied to the moon „dying away, being in 
the last quarter, new;" e.g. w'uni fi, „a dead person." 

Fi, ka-, n. verb. „act of dying"; also „mortality"; e. g. ka-fi ka 
w'dni, „the mortality of man." 

Fi, ra-, pi. tra- , n. „death"; sometimes the abstract stands for 
the concrete „a dead ione)"; e. g. ra-fi-r'ori, „his death/' 

Fi. a-, pi. e-, n. „loin, hip" (also used of the meat of an ani- 
mal slaughtered); e. g. 'a sori-ko a-fi, „they gave him one 
of the loins." 

Fino, v. n. „be good" (morally and physically); „be fair, be 
beautiful, be lovely, be fine" (as a child); ,,be kind, be 
pious; be even, be smooth" (as a rock); e. g. ah-yal ane 
na fino. „this boat is fine." 

Fino, adj. „good" (morally and physically); „fair, beautiful, fine; 
pious; smooth" (as a rock or stone); applied to condition 
„ happy"; also „kind" (as a word, or a person); e. g. a-fam 
a-fino, „good people;" — r'im ra-fino, „a kind word." 

Fino. 0-, adj. but used adverbially „well, kindly;" e. g. o yn- 
mi o-fino, „he treated me well." 

G u - u 

Firdaus, n „paradise". From the Ar. ^.Owi, beatorum sides. 
paradisus. 

Fisa. adj. „better". See an ex. pag. 127. 

Fit, ma-, n. „brains, brain;" also „marrow" (of bones). 

Pita, v. a. „cast away, throw away, throw, fling;" e. g. w'an, 
tse ri fita, „boy, do not throw it away." 

Fita, v. rel. „throw-a^ay for-;" e.g. fita-mi am-bitra ane, „throw 
this bottle away for me," = „throw me this bottle away." 

Fo, eonj. „that", = ho; often used before direct and indirect 
speech, and frequently answering to the Gr. on. It may 
often be given by „saying" in direct speech, and by „that" 
with indirect speech. It is probably the verb, adjective from 
fo, „say". E. g. ma yema fo I tak'sa-mu-i? „doest thou 
want me to teach thee?" lit. „doest thou want that I leach 
thee?' 



— 169 — 

Fo, v. n. „say," = ho. It is generally followed by ye. -which 
seems to be the clem. pr. for eye, „these" (words); in the 
1 st - person sing, the pers. verbal pronoun is often, or gene- 
rally dropped. >Yhen followed by ye, it is generally used 
as an introductory phrase to arrest the attention of the one, 
to whom one wants to say something. E. g, fo ye, man 
kone ro-Kamp aninan, „I say, let us go to Sierra-Leone to 
morrow," for: I fo ye etc., lit. „I say these (words) etc,;" — 
I fo ye, w'an etc., „I say, boy etc.;" — o fo ye, o gbali he 
der, „he says he cannot come." Fo alone, or also: fo ye 
may be used with direct and indirect speech, as: o fo: Man 
kone nina bat, „he said: Let us go to morrow morning," 
or: o fo ye: Man kone etc., „he said: Let us go etc.," lit. 
„he said these (words): etc," 

Fo, adj. verb. — ho, „saying". See fo, conj. 

Fo ye, = ho ye, see fo, v. n. 

Fof, v. n. „speak, talk;" e. g. I ko fof roMn, „I go speak to 
them;" — o gbali he fof, „he cannot speak." 

Fof, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „speech, word;" in the sing. „act of speak- 
ing;" e. g. ka-fof-k'on, „his speaking." 

Fof d'im r'in, „make an agreement" or „lreaty." lit. „spe;ik one 
word;" e, g. ria fof d'im r'in traka t.si, „they made an agree- 
ment about it." 

Fofar, v. rel. (rad. fof), „speak to, address, speak with, reason 
with, warn;" e. g. I t.si fofar-ko, „I shall speak to him." 

Fofar, ka-, pi. tra-, n. verb. „act of addressing (one); address;" 
e. g. ka-fofar-k'on an-fam, „his addressing the people." 

FqT, ra-, pi. tra-, n. ,,evening"; e.g. ra-fol ra pon bek, „evening 
has arrived." 

Foi-kara, v. n. comp. „be easy to brine;" or „to bring away;" 
e.g. ow'rini owe o foi-he-kara, ..this person is not easy to 
bring away." 

FoT-tas, v. impers. comp. „be easy to pass;" e. g. pa foi ri tas, 
„it will be easy lo pass there:" - o foi ri tas, „it is (was) 
easy to pass there." 

Fol-tr'el, v. n. comp. „be of such a charaeler as to be easy lo 



— 170 — 

deal with, be of a sociable character, be good-natured; be 
well off;" also „make joke" or „jest of a thing, jest," or 
„joke about a thing;" as: ma fol he tr'el, „thou doest not 
joke about a thing;" also „be convenient" (as time). 

Foi-tr'el, adj. „sociable, good-natured; convenient, seasonable" 
(as time); ,.easy, happy;" e. g. a-loko a-fol-tr'el, „a conve- 
nient time;" — w'Qni foi-tr'el, „a person well off." 

Fol w'Qni tr'el, v impers. a. „be easy for-, be well with-" = 
,,be comfortable, be happy, be well off;" e. g. pa fol-ko-tr'eT, 
„it is getting better with him," = „he is getting well off;" — 
o fol-ko-tr'el, „he is comfortable," lit. „it is well with him." 

Folr, a-, pi. e-, or tra-, n. „shadow, shade, shelter" (as of a 
tree); e. g. an'antr na yer-su a -folr, „the tree gives us 
shelter." 

Fok, a-, pi. e-, n. „ parcel, any thing wrapped up in the form 
of a parcel;" e. g. a-fok na m'er, „a parcel of salt." 

Fokia, v. revert, and rel. (rad. fok), „un\vrap-for-; bark-for-, take 
off-for-" (as the cover of a parcel for another); e. g. fokia- 
mi an'antr ane, „bark this tree for me." 

Fon, ra-, pi. a-, n. „hair"; e. g. an-fon-n'on, „his hair." 

For, ra-, pi. e-, n. „eye"; e. g. e-for 'e-su, „our eyes." 

Fosa, a-, n. „po\ver, influence, might, ability;" e. g. o ba he ri 
a-fosa, „he has no influence ihere," = „he is not able to 
do any thing there." 

Fot, adj. „addle, barren" (as an egg); ..empty" (as a box, or as 
the stomach); e. g. ra-mes ra-fot, „an addle egg." 

Fotane, v. refl. „rest oneself, rest, repose," e g. I kg fotane 
o-tan, „1 go to rest a little." Prob. from an obs. fota. 

Fotane, Q-, n. loc. „resting place, place of repose;" e.g. o-fotane- 
'o-mi, „my resting-place." 

Fu, adj. „new" ; e. g. k'ota ka-fu, „new cloth." 

Fuk, e-, n. „chaff" (as of rough rice when beaten in a mortar). 
That which comes off in threshing or flogging rice (as they 
say) is called: e-gbafta. 

Fiimpo, v. n. ..fall down, fall;" e. g. o fumpo ri, „he fell down 
there." 



— 171 — 

Fumpo kasi, „become liable to a fine or penally, become guilty 

of a breach of the country law." 
Funk, a-, pi. e-, or tra-, n. „store-house" (for grain or for 

agricultural productions). „barn"; e.g. a-funk a-bana, ,,a large 

store-house." 
Funti, a-, pi. e-, n. „ prisoner of war, captive." 
Funti, ra-, n. „captivity"; e. g. ra-funti-ra-riari, „their captivity." 
Fiiti, v.n. „escape, be saved;" e.g. o futi ri, „he was saved there." 
Fiiti, ka-, n. verb. „act of escaping, escape, deliverance, salva- 
tion;" e.g. ka-fdti-ka-su, „our salvation." 
Ffitia, v. caus. „make to escape, save;" e. g. kono futia-mi. „he 

saved me." 
Futia, adj. „saving"; e. g. ar'on' da-futia, „the saving way," 

i. e. „the way by which one is saved." 
Fdtia, o-, pi. a-, n. „saviour"; e.g. o-fiitia-ka-mi. „my Saviour." 
Futia, ka-, n. verb. „act of saving, a saving;" e. g. ka-futia-ko, 

„the act of saving him," — „his deliverance." 

G. 

Gba, adv. „very, indeed, much, well;" e. g. pa bone-mi tenon 

gba, „I am very glad to day;" — a, K'riru o botar-su gba! 

„oh, God loves us much!" 
Gba, ka-, pi. tra-, n. ,.score, twenty;" e. g. tra-gba tra-ran. 

„two scores," = „forty"; — tra-gba tra-sas, „three scores," 

= „ sixty." 
Gbal, v. a. „ split" (as wood); „burs!, open" (as a nut); „tear" 

(as cloth); fig. „ imparl" (as instruction); „interpret" (as dreams); 

e. g. o gba! ak'ota, „he tore the cloth." 
Gbaia, v.rel. ,,splil-for-; tear-to- or for-; open-for-;" fig. „impart- 

to-;" o gbaia-mi ak'ota, „he tore the cloth to me," = ,,he 

tore me the cloth. - ' 
Gbair, v. rel. (rad. gbal), „impart-to-, give-to-" (as instruction), 

lit. as it were „tear off -towards-." See the next word. 
Gbaia w'uni ka-wandi, i ,, impart instruction to one, preach to 



ua w uni sa-wanai, i 
ur w'uni ka-wandi, ' 



Gbair w'uni ka-wandi, ' one;" e. g. o gbair-ko ka-wandi, „he 



gave him instruction. 



— 172 — 

Gbak, ma-, n. „rust"; e. g. an-fatr ria ba ma-gbak, ,,the iron 

is rusty," lit. ,,the iron has rust." 
Gbak, v. a. „cul" (as wood); cut off, decide, settle" (as a matter), 

,, determine"; e. g. o gbak ak'antr, ,.he cut the stick." 
Gbak, v.*n. „cut; judge, give an opinion." 
Gbaka, v. a. „cut; decide, judge" (as a matter); „rule over, 

govern;" e. g. kane mo gbaka an-tof ane-e? „who is govern- 
ing this country?" 
Gbaka, ka-, n. verb. ,,act of governing" or ,,of ruling, reign, 

government;" e. g. kane ba ka-gbaka ka an-tof-e? „who has 

the government of the country?" 
Gbaka, ra-, n. „office of governing (a country); government;" 

e, g. kane ba 'ra-gbaka ra an-tof-e? ,,who has the govern- 
ment of the country now?" 
Gbakane, v. recipr. „vie" or „contend with each other;" e. g. 

'a gbakane ka ka-lam ma-sar, „they vied with each other in 

throwing stones;" — 'a gbakane ka gbuke, ,,they vie with 

each other in running," = „they ran a race." 
Glial, v. a. ,, write; make a sketch of, sketch;" e. g. o gbal a- 

reka, „he wrote a letter." 
Gbal. v. n, „write; make a sketch; e. g. o gbal o-fino, „he writes 

well." 
Gbal, ka-, n. verb. „act of writing, writing;" e. g. I nank ka- 

gbal-k'oh an-reka. ,,I saw his writing the letter," = „I saw 

him writing the letter." 
Gbal, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „line, letter, character" (as of a 

book); pi. also „writing"; e. g. ma -gbal ma-fino, „good 

writing." Also „sketch; mark." 
Gbala, adj. rel. . , belonging to writing;" e. g. k'upo ka-gbala, ,,a 

pen," lit. „a feather to write with." 
Gbalah, a-, pi. e-, n. „rock, rockv place;" e. g. a-gbalah a-bana, 

„a large rock." 
Gbnlap, v. n. „twinkle with the eyes, twinkle;" e. g. o tra gbalap. 

,,he is twinkling with the eves." 
Gbali, v. n. ..be able, can." Often used as an aux. to express 

an ability for the exercise of the energy, indicated by the 



— 173 — 

principal verb, as: o gbali he yo-tsi, = o gbali he tsi yo, 

„he cannot do it." It is generally construed with the short 

form of the Infinitive, sometimes also with the long one. 
Gbali, v. a. ,,be able for-;" e. g. o gbali-tsi, „he is able for it." 
Gbam, v. a. „beat, pound, bruise to powder" (as in a mortar); 

e. g. gbam apa-la, ,, pound the rice." 
Gbah, a-, pi. tra-, n. „dry land" (as opposed to the sea); „coun!ry;" 

e. g. ro-gbah, „in the country" (in opposition to the city). 
Gbah, adv. spec. „very, well, closely;" it is used with bakar, 

„firm, strong, fast," and with wopane, „hold together, be 

united together;" e. g. ak'antr ka trama bakar gbah, „the 

post stands very fast." 
Gbah, v. a. ,,lay across" (as a bridge); „meet; oppose, prevent, 

obstruct" (as a road); ,, waylay"; e. g. 'a gbah-ko ro-r'oh, 

,,they waylaid him in the road." 
Gbahane, v. recipr. „meet each other;" e. g. I tr*a he ro sa 

ma gbahane, „I d'ont know where me may meet each other." 
Gbanne, v. refl. a. (rad. gbah), ,,meet with, mee! ;" also ..lay 

across oneself," hence ,, carry on the shoulder;" e. g. o 

gbanne ak'antr, ,,he carried the stick on the shoulder;" — 

o gbanne-ko ro-r'oh, „he met with him in the road." 
Gbanne, v. refl. n. „meet, meet together, assemble;" e.g. 'a gbanne 

ro-r'oh, „they meet in the road." 
Gbanne, a-, pi. e-, n. ,, meeting, assembly;" e. g. ah-gbanne na 

ah-fam, „the meeting of the people." 
Gbah's, v. caus. „go to meet;" e. g. o gbaii's l'a Sori, ,,he went 

to meet Mr. Sori." 
Gbah'sane, v. caus. rel. and recipr., ,, surround, enclose, besiege" 

(as a town, or army), lit. „make to meet each other around-," 

or „for-", or „against-"; c. g. man gbah'sane-ko nan, „lel 

us surround him." 
Gbanta, v. a. „slap, strike, knock; flog, whip; toss" (as waves 

a canoe); e. g. o gbanta-mi ka a-kos-'a-mi, „he slapped me 

on one of my cheeks." 
Gbantah, a-, pi. e-, n. „porch, piazza;" e.g. o trama ro-gbantah, 

„he stood in the piazza." 



— 174 — 

Gbantane, adj. refl. ^spreading itself, making itself known, diffus- 
ing itself;" also „ making known, advertising;" e. g. w'uni 
gbantane tr'el, „a person advertising a matter," or ,,a person 
making known a matter." Prob. from an obs. gbant, 

Gbante, adj. „different, various, diverse;" e. g. e-bamp e-gbiinte, 
„various birds." 

Gbantrani, a-, pi. e-, n. ,, outskirts" or „boundary of a farm where 
it borders on the bush" or ,, forest"; e. g. o yo ma-mant 
ro-gbantrani, „he does work at the outskirts of the farm." 

Gbapne, v. refl. (rad. gbap), „fasten itself, fix itself, adhere;" e. g. 
ma-kima ma gbapne ka e-kos-y'on, „soot adheres to his cheeks." 

Gb^p'sa, v. freq. and inch. a. ,,get fastened to, adhere to, stick to; 
keep close to, attend to;" e. g. w'an, gbap'sa-mi rayer, „boy, 
keep close to my side." 

Gbarah, adv. „clearly, plainly, well, fully;" e. g. o kane-ko-tsi 
gbdran, „he told it plainly to him." 

Gbaski, v. a. „separate, part, divorce; divide; distinguish;" e. g. 
gbaski atra-lome ka ats'ir, „separate the sheep from the goats." 

Gbata, a-, pi. e, n. „mat"; e. g. a-gbata a-lol, ,,a small mat." 

Gbati, v. n. „be numerous, be many, be plentiful; e. g. pa-la 
pa gbati ri, „rice is plentiful there." 

Gb&ti, adj. „many, numerus, much; ' e.g. e-lop e-gbati, „manyfish." 

Gbato, a-, pi. e-, n. „cutlass, sword;" e. g. an-gbato-h'oh, „his 
cutlass." 

Gbatr, v. a. „set" (as a trap); „waylay, lie in ambush for-, set 
a trap for-;" e. g. o gbatr o-sem, ,,he set a trap for the 
animal;" — o gbatr-mi ro-r'oii, „he lay in ambush for me 
in the road." 

Gbatr, v. a. „knock, tap sharply" (as on a door, or on one's 
head); „strike" (as a bell); „sting" (used of the cerastes); 
e. g. o gbatr-mi, „he knocked me;" — o gbatr aka-rare, 
„he knocked on the door." 

Gbatro, v. n. „be round about;" e. g. na gbatro ro-petr be, 
„they were all round the town." 

Gbeleh, a-, pi. e, n. „bell; hour;" e. g. pa yi gbo an-gbelen 
ha ah-rei aha beka e-sas, „it is but the 3d. hour of the day." 



— 175 — 

Gben, adv. „indeed, very, verily, just, exactly." It has often 
the sense of the adj. „own" without a prefix. E. g. o lopra 
to gben, „he is now dressed indeed;" — ah-lo ha-tsi gben, 
„that very time;" — yw'an-ka-mi gben, „my own child." 

Gbeha, v. a. „hate"; e. g. o gbeha-mi, „he hates me." 

Gbeha, ka-, n. verb. „act of hating, hatred;" e.g. o gbeha-ko 
ka-gbeha ka-bana, „he hates him very much," lit. „he hales 
him (with) a great hatred." 

Gbena, ma-, n. „hatred;" e g. ma-gbeha ama o gbena-mi, ma 
etc., „the hatred with which he hates me, it etc." 

Gbehbe, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „pepper of anv kind;" e. g. ka-gbehbe 
ka-yim, „red pepper, cayenne." 

Gbengben, v. a. „question, examine by questioning, inquire into 
by questioning, examine," e. g. I tsi gbeiigbeh-ko t™ka tsi, 
„I shall question him about it." 

Gbepar, v. rel. n. (rad. gbep), „rise, go up on the top, reach the 
top" or „zenith, reach the highest point, reach the meridian-, 
(as the sun); e. g. ar'etr ra pon gbepar, „the sun has reached 
the meridian;" — ra-yola-r'on ra gbepar, „his gentleman- 
ship has reached the highest point (its zenith);" — ka-bone- 
tr'el-k'on ka pon' to gbepar, „his presumption had now 
reached the highest degree." It is sometimes followed by 
rokom, „on top," as: o pon gbepar rokom, „he has reached 
the top." 

Gbepar, v. rel. a. (rad. gbep), go on the top of-;" fig. „reach" or 
„rise to the rank of-;" e. g. o gbepar ra-yola, „he rose to 
the rank of a gentleman ;" — o gbepar ail-set, „he went on 
the top of the house." 

Gbepar 'ra-bomp ratroh, „rise to" or ,, reach the zenith" or 
„meridian" (as the sun at noon), lit. „rise to the very middle 
of the head;" e. g. ma ar'etr ra gbepar 'ra-bomp ratroh etc., 
„when the sun reached the meridian etc." 
Gbep'trane, v. recipr. (rad. gbep), Join together, be close to- 
gether, be near to each other;" e. g. ma yira s§ gbep'trane, 
„let us sit close together," lit. „let us sit we are close to- 
gether." 



— 176 — 

Gbera, a-, n. „flour" (as made of rice); e. g. a-gbera a-laT, 
,,much rice-flour.'" 

Gbes, adv. „all night, Ihe, whole night;" e. g nanan gbes, „all 
last night." 

Gbetgbetne, v. refl. „recline" or ,,sit down with the legs close 
together" (as the Temnes do at their meals), „sit down with 
legs put on eacli other," == the Gr. draxXiro/ica or avaxti- 
fjuxi; or — Ihe Lat. accumbere; hence ,,sit down" or „recline 
to a meal." This form is used of old people and of women. 
Gbatgbalne, or gbatigbatine is „'o recline" or „sit down in 
an improper" or ,, indecent manner, with the legs stretched 
out far from each other" or ,, as! ride, so as to offend cha- 
stity." Those who do so are said not to like others to eat 
with them. This latter form is used of men only. E. g. 
o-bal o won traka kali aha pon gbetgbetne ka ah-fanta ha 
ka-nantra, ,,the king went in to see those who had sat down 
to the marriage feast;" — but: w'an, tse gbatgbalne, „boy, 
do not sit down astride." 

Gbetr, adv. „middlingly, just right, just, good, well; quite, fully; 
accurately, minutely;" e, g. o wan gbo gbetr tenon, „it is but 
partially clear to day;" — I yif-ko-tsi gbetr, „I asked him 
minutely about it." 

Gbetr, adj. „middling, right, just right, good, accurate; e.g. ma- 
pant ma-gbetr, „accnrate work;" r'a ra-gbetr, „a thing just 
right." 

Gbip, v. a. „catch, capture, make-prisoner;" e. g. o gbip an- 
troko, „he caught the fowl." 

Gbipa, v. rel. „calch-for-, capture-for-;" e.g. gbipa-mi an-troko, 
„catch the fowl for me," = „catch me the fowl." 

Gbo, adv. „only, but, just; quite; then." With a verb it often 
expresses the words „as soon as." E. g. I nah'-ko gbo win, 
„1 saw him but once;" — be I poh gbo-e, I tsi der, „as 
soon as I have done, I shall come," lit. „when I have but 
done etc."; — mo o yefa gbo ro-petr, ha kdne, „as soon as 
he came from town, they went away." Cf. also the aux. v. 
bar in loco. 



— 177 — 

Gbo gbetr, „just exactly, but just;" e. g. ar'etr ra pulr gbo gbetr, 

mo o kone, „the sun was but just risen above the horizon. 

when he left." 
Gbo ras, „but just, only just," lit. „onlv yet," Ger. „eben erst;" 

e. g. o trap gbo ras tra yo ma-pant, „he only just began to 

do work." 
Gbo ton, „then now, now;" e. g. man kone gbo ton, sa soto 

ey'etr-'e-su, „let us then go now, we have got our things." 
Gbon, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „bundle" (as of rice cut), .,a hand- 
ful, a sheave;" e. g. a-gbon na pa-la, „a sheave of rice." 
Gbonkal, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „dale, valley." 
Ghonko, a-, pi. e-, or Ira-, n. „old forest, forest" (where the 

timber trees have not yet been cut out); e. g. o yi ro- 

gbohko, „he is in the forest." 
Gbohkto, a-, pi. e-, n. „kitchen"; e.g. o yi ro-gbonklo, „he is 

in the kitchen." 
Gbope, v. n. „be rugged, be uneven, be rough" (as ground or 

a stone); e. g. an-tof na gbope ri, „the ground is rugged 

there." 
Gbope-gbope, v. freq. or hit ens. n. „be very rugged, be very 

uneven, be very rough;" e. g. an-tof ha gbope-gbope ri, „lhe 

ground is very uneven there." 
Gborka, o-, pi. a-, n. „one not initiated into the secret society 

of the Bondos" or „of the Porros; one ceremoniously un- 
clean." Cf. Pref. § 18, a. 
Gbdsa, adj. „belonging to tempting" or „alluring" or „sedueing. 

tempting;" e. g. r'a ra-gbdsa ra yi ri, „there is a temptation 

there," lit. „a tempting thing is there;" from the v. rel. gbcjsa, 

„tempt-with-," (rad. gbos, „ tempt.") 
Gboti, v. a. „pluck-oll, tear-ofl, pull-off, pluck" (as fruit from 

a tree, or a rope); e. g. o gboti ma-lemre, „he plucked 

limes." 
Gbuke, v. n. „run, run away, flee;" e. g. ah-fam be ha gbuke, 

„all the people ran away." 
Gbuke, v. a. „run away from, flee from;" e. g. o gbuke-mi, ,,'he 

Temne - Worterbuch. 1 '£ 



— 178 — 

ran away from me;" — o gbuke am-bok, „he fled from the 
snake." 

Gbulr, v. n. „be short;" e. g. ak'antr ka gbulr, „the stick is 
short," 

Gbutras, v. caus. „shorten, make short;" passively „be shorten- 
ed;" e. g. gbutras-ki, „shorten it;" — ak'antr ka re gbutras, 
„the stick will be shortened." 

H. 

Ha, conj. = hah „so that, in somuch that;" e. g. ha kane-su 
fo ow'dni owe o sake; kere o sake sol, ha a-fam ha gbali 
he (si tra>a, „they told us that this person turns himself; 
but he turns himself softly, so that people are not aware 
of it." 

Ha, adv. = hah „till, until;" e. g. I kar-ko, ha pa lela-mi, 
„1 waited for him, till I was tired," lit. „till it tired me." 

Hali. conj. „though, although;" e. g. be na nane gbo tnika kela, 
hali na keia he etc., „if ye only think of stealing, although 
ye do not steal etc." 

Hali, adv. „very, much;" e. g. ak'ota ake I gb§li he ki sond, 
1 yema-ki hali, „as for this cloth 1 cannot part with it, I 
am much in need of it." 

Halisa, adv. „moreover, yet, still, still yet, yet still;" e. g. ha 
yo ma-pant halisa," = halisa na yo ma-pant, „they still do 
work;" — kono mo son-su ras ey'etr be, „he is yet giving 
us all things still." 

Hah, conj. -- ha, which see. 

Hah, adv. = ha, which see. 

He, adv. „not", = fe which see; e g. o ta der he, „he did not 
yet come." It is only used with verbs like fe, and both 
forms might be considered as negative suffixes to form ne- 
gative verbs. 

Ho, conj. — fo, which see. 

Ho, v. n. „say", = fo, which see. 

Ho, adj. participial „saying", = fo, which see. 

Ho ye, = fo ye, which see. 



— 179 — 

I. 

-I? direct inter, suff. placed at the end of the proposition; e. g. 

I der royah-i? „shall 1 come vender?" — I trel ton-i ? 

„shall I leave off now?" 
'I, abbr. form of hi, pr. obj. „it", used after the letter n. See 

an ex. in Tenm. Trad. p. 6. 
Iy6o, adv. „yes"; e.g. ko ow'ahet o pa ho: Ya, toisa-mi am- 
W bamp. O-kara-k'oh o pa ho: I.yoo; „and the child said: 

Mother, broil me the bird. His mother said: Yes." 

K. 

K', pref. indef. and insep. „a. an;" e.g. k'antr. „a stick," for 
ka-antr. 

Ka, prep. „in, into; to; at; from; for; with; according; while;" 
e. g. o wur ka ah-set, „he came out from the house." The 
sense is indicated by the verb with which it is used. 

Ka-, pref. def. = aka-, „tbe"; as ka-bep, „the spoon." It is 
the def. form of ka-. 

Ka, prep. poss. „of". It is the def. form of ka; e.g. o-kas ka 
o-bal, „the father of the king." 

Ka, conj. „and", = ke and ko; this form is used before words 
with or before, the vowel a; e. g. ka ha pa ho: etc., „and 
they said: etc." 

Ka, adv. „then; when," = ke and ko; this form is used before 
words with or before the vowel a; and in the minor pro- 
position. If any time is indicated in the antecedent , or if 
the adv. ma in the sense of „when" precedes; then ka has 
the sense of „then"; otherwise it has the sense of „\vhen"; 
e. g. o poll gbo der-e, ka ha mota kone, „as soon as he 
had come, then only they left," = „he had just come, be- 
fore they went away;" — o yi ka der, ka an-tsik ha bek, 
„he was just coming, when the strangers arrived." See the 
Note after ke, adv. 

Ka, pr. subj.def. „it"; e. g. ka-bep ka dinne, „the spoon is lost." 
Ka-, pref. indef. „a, an;" e. g. ka-bep, „a spoon." With verb. 

12* 



— 180 — 

nouns it may often be given by „to" with a following Infi- 
nitive, for which the verb, noun often stands. Verb, nouns 

derived from transitive verbs may still take an object in the 

Ace. 
Ka, prep. poss. „of". It is the indef. form of ka; e. g. ka-bep 

ka Sori, „a spoon of Sori." 
Ka, pr. subj. indef. ,.il"; as: ka-bep-ka-mi ka dinne, „a spoon 

of mine is lost." 
Ka a-loko lorn, „at a certain time, once;" = loko loin 
Ka-mi, pr. poss. def. „my", lit. „of me;" e.g. ka-bep-ka-mi, „my 

spoon." 
Ka-mi, pr. poss. indef. „my", lit. „of me;" e. g. ka-bep-ka-mi, 

lit. „a spoon of me," = „a spoon of mine" or „my spoon." 
Ka-mu, pr. poss. def. „thy", lit. „of thee"; e.g. ka-bep-ka-mu, 

„thy spoon." 
Ka-mu, pr. poss. indef. „thy", lit. „of thee;" e.g. ka-bep-ka-mu, 

lit. „a spoon of thee" = „a spoon of thine" or „thy spoon." 
Ka-nan, pr. poss. def. ,.1heir", lit. „ofthem"; e.g. ka-bep-ka-hah, 

„their spoon." 
Ka-nan, pr. poss. indef. „their," lit. „of them;" e.g. ka-bep-ka-nah, 

„a spoon of them," = „a spoon of theirs" or „lheir spoon." 
Ka-nu, pr. poss. def. „your", lit. „of you;" e. g. ka-bep-ka-nu, 

„your spoon." 
Ka-nu, pr. poss. indef. „your", lit. „of you;" e. g. ka-bep-ka-nu, 

„a spoon of you," == „a spoon of yours" or „your spoon;" 

— ka-bep-ka-nu kiah, „this (is) a spoon of yours," lit. „a spoon 

of yours this (it)." 
Ka ka lap'so, \ „at last," lit. „at the end;" e. g. o der ka ka- 
Ka ka-lap'sa, > lap'so, „at last he came," or „he came at last." 
Ka-lap'so, \ n. but used adverbially, „the last time," lit. ,.the 
Ka-lap'sa, > end;" for which they more generally use the aux. v. 

lapso, „be last." E. g. me I ko ri ka-lapso, „when I went 

there the last time." 
Ka-lap'so-ka-Lsi, > „a1 last, afterwards," lit. „al the end of it;" 
Ka-lap'sa-ka-tsi, > e. g. ka-!ap'so-ka-tsi o son-mi ey'etr-'e-mi, „at 

last he gave me my things." 



— 181 — 

Ka ka-niran-ka-tsi, \ „afterwards 3 after Ibis," lit. „at its back" 
Ka-rarah-ka-tsi, * or „at the back of it;" e. g. ka ka-raran- 

ka-tsi I tsi der, „afterwards 1 shall come." 
Ka ka-raran ake, > „after this." lit. „at the back (of) this;" e. g. 
Ka-raran ake, * ka ka-raran ake o tse tsi so yo, (or: o tie 

so yo tsi), „after this he did not do it again." 
Ka-raran, n. but used as a prep. „afler", lit. „the back;" e. g. 

ka-raran ka ka-tsim, „after the war." The preposition ka, 

„at" is dropped before the noun. 
Ka-sn, pr. poss. def. „our", lit. „ofus;" e.g. ka-bep-ka-sn, „our 

spoon." 
Ka-sn, pr. poss. indef. „onr", lit. ,.of ns;" e.g. ka-bep-ka-su, „a 

spoon of ns," = „a spoon of ours," = = „our spoon." 
Ka-troh, n. but used as a prep. ..between, amongst, among," 

lit. „the middle;" e. g. ka-tron ka an-fam, ,.amongst the 

people." See the observation at the n. ka-raran above. 
Ka-tsi, pr. dem. log. „that"; e. g. ak'antr ka-tsi, ,,'hat log of 

timber" (spoken of) 
Ka-tsi, pr. poss. neut. „ils", lit. „of it;" e. g. ka-ra-ka-tsi, ..its 

branch," lit. „the branch of it." 
Kabane, adj. „wonderful, astonishing, extraordinary; - ' e.g. tr'ei 

tra-kabane, „a -wonderful thing." 
Kabi, o-, pi. a-, n. ..blacksmith". 
Kadi, adv. „before, ahead, forwards, onward;" e. g. Q ko kadi, 

„he went forwards;" — trama kadi, „ stand ahead." 
K'afa, pi. tr'afa, n. „book". This word is used by the Morimen. 

and by those who speak deep Temne, as they call it; the 

common word for it is a-reka, which see. 
Kafri, o-, pi. a-, n. „infidel, unbeliever, heathen." From the 

Ar. Isl^ infidelis; Mand. kafir. 

K'aidi, ( pi. tr'airi, n. ., paper". From the Ar. t\i:li^ charta; 

K'airi, \ e. g. k'airi ka-ffno, „good paper." 

K'ak, pi. tr'ak, n. ,,ant in general;" also: „small black an!, sugar- 
ant" As regards the form Pa Tr'ak-na, the prefix ha belong- 
ing to Pa is here put behind Tr'ak instead of behind Pa, as it 



— 1 82 — 

would not do to say Pa-ria Tr'ak; because Tr'ak is here 
taken as a name to which Pa-na, „Messrs." is applied. Pa 
belongs to those nouns which may take the indef. pi. pref. 
behind instead of before the noun, as will be seen from the 
Temne Grammar. The pr. may follow in the sing., though 
the noun is in the pi., and vice versa; as all of them are 
taken as one whole, or the sing, for the whole species. See 
Fables p. 90. 

Kal, v. n. „relurn". As an aux. it serves to express the adv. 
„again"; e. g. I tsi kal son-mu-tsi, „I shall give it to thee 
again;" — kal kanta ka-nire, „shut the door again." 

Kal, v. a. „scorch" (as fire the leaves of a tree etc.; see the 
adj. below); „ broil"; e, g. an'antr na kal e-bopar be, „lhe 
fire scorched all the leaves;" — kal o-sem, „broil the meat." 

Kal, adj. „scorched" fas the leaves of a tree by a fire, or as 
the feathers of a fowl, or the hairs of a skin on a fire); 
„broiled"; e.g. e-bopar e-kal, „scorched leaves;" — o-sem 
o-kal, „broiled meat." 

Kala, a-, n. „goods" (as used for bartering and valued by [he 
bar, as they call it, from a bar of iron, the first circulating 
medium introduced here), hence „property, money;" e. g. 
a-kala a-fera, „cash", lit. „whi!e money," = ,.silver coin;" 
a-kala a-bania, „ransom". See the word bar, a- in loco. 
The word is also used of money in the sing, without any 
a'djunct; as: o ba a-kala a-gbati, „he has much money." 

Kala, v. caus. (rad. kal), „bring back, return, restore, give back, 
repay," lit. „ cause to return;" also „revenge oneself on-for-;" 
e.g. kono kala ma-nume-ma-nan, „he effected their reconcilia- 
tion," lit. „he restored their friendship; 1 ' — 1 tsi kala-ko-tsi, 
„I shall revenge myself on him for it," lit. „1 shall give it 
back to him;" — o kala-mi-tsi, „he returned it to me." 

Kalane, v. sponl , or caus. and refl. (rad. kal), „return"; lit. „re- 
turn of one's own accord" or „bring back oneself;" e.g. man 
kalane, „let us return;" — o kalane so ro-Bake Loko, „he 
returned again to Port-Loko." 

Kali. v. n. „look, look about; be awake; live;" — e. g. o kali 



— 183 — 

o-fino, „he looks well about;" — ko ma ma kali-e? „what 

art thou looking at?" 
Kali, v. a. ..look at;" e. g. o kali-mi, „he looked at me." 
Kali, adj. „ waking, awake, alive;" e. g w'uni kali, „a person 

awake." 
Kali, v. a. „postpone, defer, put off; detain;" e. g. kali ka-kone- 

ka-mu ro-kamp, „postpone thy going to Freetown;" — n 

kali o-tsik, „he detained the stranger." 
Kali-kali, v. freq. or intens. n. „look all about, look out" (as one 

on a watch, or as a spy). 
Kali w'uni o-nosi-neT, „look with pity (compassion) on one;" 

e. g. o kali-mi o-nosi-nel, „he looked with pity on me." 
Kali w'lini o-tol, \ „look well upon one, look wilh favour upon 
Kali w'lini tot, ' one, take good care of one;" e. g. o kali- 
mi tot, „he takes good care of me." 
K'alma, pi. tr'alma, n. ,,a large black antelope with white lips 

and long retroverted horns, about the size of a year old calf, 

and of great strength, so as to fight with a leopard." l!s 

meat has a strong disagreeable smell. 
Kama, conj. „that" ; e. g. kaue-ko kama o der, „tell him that 

he may come." 
Kamu, a-, pi. e-, or Ira; or o-, pi- Ira-, n. „an iguana, guana." 
Kamp, ro-, „ Freetown (in Sierra-Leone)," so called, because the 

settlers, when they arrived there, made a camp near the 

shore, lit. „at (be camp." From the Engl. 
Kane? pr. rel. inter. „\\ho"? e.g. kane yo atr'ei atse-e? „\\ho 

did this thing?" 
Kane, v. a. „tell, command; say to, relate;" o kane-ko-tsi, „he 

told it to him." 
Kane, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „saying; history, narration; news;''' 

e. g. I ko tral aii-kane ha an-t.sik. „1 go to hear the news 

from the strangers." 
Kahka, v. a. „confine" (as water by a dam); „obstruct one's pro- 
gress; surround, besiege "(as a town); „ detain by force;" e.g. 

'a kahka ah-set, „they surrounded the house." 



— 184 — 

K'ankal, pi. tr'ankal, n. „tornado, thunderstorm;" c. g. k'ankal 
ka-bana ka tra der, „there is a heavv tornado coming." 

o O o 7 ' " O 

Kanko! int. expressing the Optative, „may! grant that! o that!" 

e. g. kanko K'riru o mar-mi! „may God help me!" It is 

constr. with the def. verb. 
Kant, e-, n. „guin of the eyes;" Ger. „Augenbutter" ; Lat. pi- 

tuita crassa, gramia. 
Kant, a-, pi. tra-, n. „wood, bush, wood lands, young forest;" 

e. g. o yi ro-kant, „he is in the bush." 
Kanta, v. a. „shut" (as a door); e. g. k'anta ka-rare, „shut the 

door." 
Kanti, v. revert, a. (rad. kanta), ,,open" (as a door); e.g. kanti ka- 
rare, „open Ihe door." 
K'antr, pi. tr'antr, n. „slick, log of timber" (felled); „timber- 

tree" (standing); e. g. k'antr ka-boli, „a long stick." 
Kapatr, a-, pi. e, n. „b<-east, ches! ; bosom;" e. g. o yi ka ah- 

kapatr-n'oh, „he was in his bosom." 
K'ar, pi tr'ar, n. „louse;" e. g. o ba tr'ar tra-lal, „he has many 

lice." 
Kar. v. a. „wait, wait for, await, expect;" e.g. tse ko ri kar, 

„do not wait for him there;" — kar-mi ba, w'an! „wait 

me here, boy!" 
Kara, o-, pi. a-, n. „mothf»r; mistress;" e. g. o kara-k'oh, „his 

mother." This form is not used when addressing a mother. 
Kara, v. a. „bring, bring away;" e. g. 'a kara-ko, „they brought 

him." 
Kara, v. rel. ,.bring-for-. bring-to-;" e. g. kara-mi n'antr, „bring 

me fire," = „bring fire for me." 
Karamoko, o-, pi. a-, n. ,, teacher, schoolmaster," lit. ,, reading 

master." Prob. from the Mand. karamo, „schoolmaster". 
Karah, v. n. „read"; also ,, learn"; e.g. o karah o-fino, ,, he reads 

well." See the next word. 
Karah, v. a. „read; learn;" also ,, teach"; e. g ko karah an-reka 

ane, „go read this letter." In the first place from the Mand. 

karah, but ultimately from the Ar. fli", legit. 



— 185 — 

K'aran, pi. tr'aran, n. ,,fire- place, hearth;" e. g. ro-karah. ,,at 
the fire-place. ' 

Karandi, o-, pi. a-, n. ,, scholar, disciple." Mand. karandino. 
E. g. aii-karandi-n'on, ,,his disciples." 

Karane, v. rel. and refl. (rad.kara), ,, bring with" or ,,for oneself;" 
e. g. o karane a-gbata, „he brought a mat with himself." 

Karmoko, o-, pi. a-, n. = karamoko, o-. which see. 

K'aro, pi. tr'aro, n. ,, wooden bowl, bowl;" e. g. k'aro ka-bana, 
„a large bowl." 

Kas, o-, pi. a-, n. ,, father; master;" in the pi. also ,, ancestors, 
forefathers;" e. g. o-kas-ka-mi, ,,my father." This form is 
not used for addressing a father. 

Kasa, v. n. ,, intercede, mediate;" also ,,be of a middling quality" 
or ,, stature" (as goods, or people); e. g. Pa Sori o selo he 
kasa, „Mr. Sori will not intercede." 

Kasa, v. a. „intercede for-, interpose between-, interfere between-, 
interpose in behalf of-; be" or ., stand between-;" also ,.make 
peace between-, effect a reconciliation between-." It is al- 
ways followed by ratroh, ,.between"; e. g. kono kasa-su ra- 
troh, ,,he. intercedes for us;" — a-kunk na kasa-su ratroh. 
,, there is a fence between us." 

K'asi, pi tr'asi, n. „breach of the law which subjects the offender 
to penalty, guilt, trespass;" also ,, penally itself." Cf. fumpo 
kasi, under F. 

Kasi, v. n. ,, refuse, be not willing, will not; be saucy, be un- 
relenting;" 1 kane-ko Ira yo ma-pant, ko o kasi. ..1 told him 
to do work, and he refused." Also used as an aux., when 
it is construed with the short form of the Infinitive. See 
bak, v. inch, 

Kasra, adj. ,, violent"; e.g. w'Uni kasra. ., a violent person." From 

So-' 

the Ar. ***$, violentia. 

Katr, v. a. ,,put" (as a word, or excuse); ,, fasten; make" (as a 

heap). See the next word. 
Katr k'ere, ,,make an excuse, make an apology;" e. g. o katr 

k'ere, ,,he made an excuse." 



— 186 — 

K'atrak, pi. tr'atrak, n. ,,foot"; e. g. ak'atrak-k'oii, „his foot." 

Katrne, v. refl. n. (rad. katr), lit. „put oneself, fasten oneself;" 
hence „mix oneself in a matter, interfere, meddle;" e.g. tse 
katrne ka ko ri, „do not meddle by going there." 

Katrne, v. refl. a. „put-oneself, make-oneself" (as an excuse). 
See next word. 

Katrne k'ere, „excuse oneself, make an excuse for oneself;" e. g. 

katrne k'ere, „he excused himself." 

Ke, conj. „and", = ka and ko; this form is used before words 
with or before the vowels e, e and i; e. g. ke me I nari'- 
ko, etc., ,,and when I saw him, etc." 

Ke, adv. „then; when," = ka and ko; this form is used before 
words with or before the vowels e, e and i, and in the minor 
proposition. If any time is indicated in the antecedent, or 
if the adv. me ,,when" precedes; then ke has the sense of 
„then"; otherwise it has the sense of „when"; e. g. o yi 
gbo ka ko ro-Kamp, ke 1 der, ,,he was just about going to 
Freetown, when I came;" -- me 1 bo na bes ro-kuhk-e, ke 

1 fir an-kala arie, „when I was engaged in digging in the 
yard, then I found this money." 

Note. When ma, or me, or mo, „when" occurs in the ante- 
cedent; then the ka, or ke, or ko is generally left untrans- 
lated in English. The form ma corresponds with ka, me 
with ke, and mo with ko. The forms ka, ke and ko in 
the sense of „then, when" are only used in the minor pro- 
position; but ka ma, ke me, and ko mo, may be used in 
the antecedent in the sense of „and when", and in the minor 
in the sense of „then when", or „then" or „when" simply. 
Sometimes ka, ke and ko may be given by „before". See 
ko, adv. below. 
K'e, pi. tr'e, = k'eh, pi. tsen, n. „property inherited," hence 
„inherilance, property;" e. g. ak'e-k'gh, „his inheritance;" 
— o-kas-ka-mi o tsia-mi k'e ka-bana, „my father left me a 
large inheritance." 
Ke-6-ke, = kl-6-kl, or = ko-ko, adv. „at all, by all means, at 
all events, however;" with a negation ,,not at all," or „by 
no means;" e. g. yo-tsi ke-6-ke, „do it by all means;" — 



— 187 — 

pa back ke-6-ke, tse pal m'antr, „ how ever hard il may be, 
do not forget water." 

Kel, ra, pi. tra-, n. „theft, thievery;" e. g. ra-kel-r'on, „his 
theft." 

Keia, v. n. „steal, practise theft ;" e.g. o keia ro-petr, „he stole 
in the town." 

Keia, v. a. „steal;" e. g. q keia e-yoka ro-k'or, „he stole cas- 
sadas in the farm." 

Keia, ka-, n. verb. „act of stealing, theft;" e. g. ka-keia-k'on, 
„his theft." 

K'ek, pi. ts'ek, or tr'ek, n. „beard"; also fig. „a spider's web;" 
e. g. o ba k'ek ka-boli, „he has a long beard." See the 
Note after kotsi. 

Kel, ro-, thus they call an arm of the Sierra Leone river, and 
that part of the Temne country which is contiguous to it. 

Kelfa, o-, pi. a-, n. „captain of an army, war-officer, hero, war- 
rior;" e. g. o-kelfa o-bana, „a great hero." 

Kelfa, ra-, n. „office" or „rank of a captain of an army; bra- 
very, heroism;" e. g. ra-kelfa-r'on, „ his bravery." 

K'eme, pi. tr'eme, n. „hundred"; e. g. tr'eme tra-ran, „two 
hundred." 

K'ehke, pi. tr'ehke, n. „a sort of cymbal worn on the thumb, 
and struck by a thimble on the middle finger," or „by se- 
veral fingers, to accompany the drum." It is made of iron 
or brass, and resembling a large thimble. 

Kere, conj. „but"; e. g. o yema der, kere tr'ei tra ben!r-ko, 
„he wished to come, but something prevented him." 

Kere, adv. „even, yea." See an ex. in Tradit. p. 28. 

Kere, v. a. „carry, lead, carry away;" e. g. w'an, kere ey'elr 
eye, „boy, carry these things away;" also „carry-to-, carry- 
for-," as: kere-mi ey'etr eye, ,. carry these things away for 
me." 

K'ere, pi. tr'ere, n. „excuse, apology." See the word katr, 
above. 

K'ereh, pi. ts'eren, or Ir'eren, n. „grass"; e. g. k'ercn ka-lai. 
,.much grass." See the Note after kot.si. 



— 188 — 

Keta, v. a. „puzzle, perplex, embarrass;" e.g. alr'ei atse tra 

kela-mi, „t his thing puzzles me." 
Keta, v. n. „be puzzling, be perplexing;" e. g. atr'ei atse tra 

keta, „ this thing is perplexing." 
K'etr, pi. tr'etr, or ts'etr, n. „a whip". See the Note after kot.si. 
Ki, pr. obj. „it"; e. g. o wal-ki ro-petr, „he bought it in town." 
Ki', pr. emph. abbr. „it, this" for kla; e. g. ka-lapso-ka-lsi ki' 

taho ake, „this is not the end of it," lit. „lhe end of it 

(its end) it not this." 
Kl-6-ki, adv. = ke-6-ke, or ko-ko. See ke-6-ke. 
Kla, pr. emph. „it, this." Sometimes it refers to the noun k'a, 

„time", when it may be given by „ this time," in which case 

it is sometimes preceded by tenon, „to day." E. g. ka-bep- 

ka-mi kla yi tsi, „this is my spoon." 
Kla-ke, pr. dem. prox. comp. „ this" or „i! (isj this" or „this it 

(is)," lit. ,,it this;" e. g. ka-bep-ka-mi kla-ke, „this is my 

spoon," lit. „my spoon it (is) this. ' 
Kla yi, * „namely, that is, that is to say," lit. „il is;" e. g. 
Kla yi ho, S ak'afa ka K'uru, kla yi i ho) am-faeibal, „the book 

of God, that is the Bible." 
Kil, a-, pi. e, or tra; or o-, pi. tra-, n. „ground-pig." 
K'ima, pi. ts'ima, > n. „smoke"; e. g. k'ima ka-bana, „a great 
K'imo, pi. ts'imo, ' smoke." 

Ki'ma, ma-, n. „soot"; e.g. ma-kima ma-lal, „much soot." 
K'in, adj. num. ,.one"; e.g. ka-bep k'in, ,,one spoon." 
Kiha, v. rel. r^= kona, which see. 
Kira, v. a. „agitate, disturb, trouble" (as people, or water); e.g. 

w'an, tse kira am'anir, „boy, do not disturb the water." 
Ki'si , v. n. „ escape, be saved;" e. g. q kisi ri, „he was saved 

there." 
Kisi, ka.-, n. verb. „aet of being saved" or „of escaping, sal- 
vation." 
Kisia, v. caus. „cause to escape, save;" e. g. kiino kisia-mi ri, 

„he saved me there." 
Ko, v. n. „go". When used as an aux. it may sometimes be 

given by „come, happen." E. g. sa ko rgk pa-la, „wc go 



— 189 

to reap (cut) rice;" — na kg ro-Kamp, „lhey go to Free- 
town." 
Ko, conj. „and", = ka and ke; this form is used before words 
will) or before the vowels o, o and u; e. g. ka ma na der 
etc., „and when they came etc." 
Kg, adv. „then, when," = ka and ke; this form is used before 
words with or before the vowels o, o and u in the minor 
proposition. If any time is indicated in the antecedent, or 
if the adv. mo, „when" precedes; then ko has the sense of 
„then"; otherwise it has the sense of „\\hen"; e. g. o yi 
ka ko ro-Kamp, ko o-tsik o der, „he was about to go lo 
Freetown, when the stranger came;" — mo o yi ka ko ro- 
Kamp, o tsik o der, „when (as) he was about to go to Free- 
town, (then) the stranger came;" — I pon gbo gbal an-reka, 
kg g der, „1 had just written the letter, when (then) he 
came," = „! had just written the letter before he came." 
See the Note after ke, adv. 
Kg, pr. obj. „him, her;" e. g. 1 nah'-ko, „I saw him." 
Ko? pr. inter. „what?" e. g. ko ma ma yo-e? „what art thou 

doing?,, 
K'g, abbr. of k'gn, „his, her;" this form is used if it comes to 
stand between the two constituent parts of a comp. noun; 
as: ka-mar-k'g-tr'eT, for ka-mar-tr'ei-k'gh, „his luckiness." 
Ko-ko, adv. = ki-o-kl, or = ke 6 ke, which see. 
Ko he-el „what is the matter? why?" for: ko na yi e? lit. 

„what is it?" 
Ko ne — e? „what is the matter that — ? why — ?" E. g. ko 

he ma fanta ano-e? „why doest thou lie. down here?" 
Ko he ba-e? „what is the matter now?" lit. „what is it now?" 

for: ko ha yi ba-e? 
Ko tr'el-e? „how is this?" „how comes this?" lit. „what thing?" 
Ko tr'el Ira — e? „why — ?" „what is the matter that—?" 

F. g. ko tr'el Ira ma der-e? „why does! thou come?" 
Ko'i, for kori, v. a. „salute; visit." This form is used in salu- 
tations before the obj. pr. of the 2d. pws. plur., as: ko'i-nu, 
pa-ha! „I salute you. Sirs!" 



— 190 — 

K'olo, pi. tr'olo, n. „hollo\v" (as in a tree); „cavity" (as of a 
bowl); e. g. k'olo ka-bana, „a large hollow." 

Kolone, v. refl. (rad. kolo), „commend oneself, boast;" e. g. o 
kolone gbo ka-tsih, „he boasts but in vain." 

Rom, v. a. „bring forth, bear, produce" (as a woman a child, 
or a tree fruit); e. g. o-kara owo kom-mi, „the mother who 
bare me." 

Kom, v. n. „bnng forth, bear, be fruitful, bear fruit; bring forth 
children, be delivered of a child;" e. g. ah'antr ane na kom 
he, „this tree does not bear;" — o-rani-ka-mi o kom he, 
„ray wife does not bring forth children" = „is barren." 

Kom, adj. „ bringing forth; born, brought forth;" e. g. ah'antr 
a-kom ma-komi ma -fin o, „a tree bringing forth good fruit." 

Kom, ka-, n. verb. „act of bringing forth, birth, parturition, de- 
livery; act of being born;" e. g. ka-kom-k'oh, „her parturi- 
tion," or also „his being born;" — ah-lo ha ka-kom-ka-mi, 
I tr'a he hi, „as to the time of my delivery, I do not know 
it;" — ka-kom-ko, „the act of bringing him forth," = „his 
birth." 

Komane, v. rel. and refl. „bear with-" (as a child with a natural 
spot, or with four fnigers on one hand), lit. „ bring forth with" 
or „on oneself;" e.g. am-mera-h'oh aha 'a komone-ko ha tofal, 
„he is of a natural mild temper," or „his temper is naturally 
mild," lit. „his temper with which they bare him is mild." 
Also simply „bear"; e. g. ya 'a komane-ko gbo, „thus he 
was born," lit. ,,'hus they just bare him." 

Komane, adj. „ innate, inborn, natural, hereditary;" e. g. am- 
mera h'oh a-komane, „ his natural temper;" r'a ra-komane 
rah, „that is a hereditary thing." 

Komar, v. rel. „bear, bring forth," lit. „bear-at-," but the suff. 
is here redundant; e. g. ro 'a komar-ko, „ where he was 
born," lit. „where they brought him forth." 

Komi, n-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „fruit"; e. g. ma-kumi ma-fino, 
„good fruit." 

Kom'ra, o-, pi. a-, n. „a woman in childbed," for komara. 

Kom'ra. ra-, pi. tra-, n. „generation, offspring, descendants, 



$ 



— 191 — 

posterity;" also „ one's domestics, those under one's con- 
trol," or „under the head of a family." The plur. is used 
of a plurality of families, the sing, being already a collective 
noun; e. g. 'ra-komra-ra-mi, „my posterity." 

Ron', pr. emph. abbr. for kono, „he, she; him, her;" e. g. kon' 
taho yo tsi, „it is not he who did it," or „not he did it;" 
— kon' son, „he alone." 

K'on, pr. poss. „his, her," for ka ko „of him, of her," with the 
euph. n added; e. g. ka-bep-k'on, „his spoon." 

K'on, pr. obj. „him, her." This form is used if it follows a comp. 
loc. prep., which is followed by the prep, ka, k'on being a 
contraction of ka ko like the preceding pr. pnss. ; e.g. ka-tron 
ka Sori de ka-troh-k'ori, ,.between Sori and between him." 

Kon'a? for kdno-a? pr. inter. „ where is he?" = the Hebr. iiN- 
e.g. kon'a Sori? „ where is Sori?" The subst. verb „be" 
is always implied. Cf. the suit. -A? above. 

Koha, = kina, v. rel. (rad. kin, or kon), „make-to fall down" or 
„dro[) off for-" (as the wind, or a person, fruit from a tree 
for one); e.g. an-fef ha kona-mi ma-lemre, „the wind made 
limes to fall down for me." 

Kone, v. refl. (rad. ko), „go away, go, depart, leave, start," lit. 
„go oneself;" as applied to the. water „flow"; e.g. o kone 
dis ra-foT, „he left yesterday evening " 

Kohkoh, v. a. „shake, shake off" (as dust from cloth), „shake out, 
knock out" (as dirt from the inside of a box by knocking on it), 
„knock on;" e. g. kohkoh ak'uma, kama e-di e wur, „knock 
on the box that the dirt may come out." 

Kono, pr. emph. „he, she; him, her;" e. g. kono yo-tsi. „he 
did it." 

K'ono, pi. tr'ono, n. „turkish sabre, scimitar, curvated cutlass." 

Kong-konone, pr. refl. „he himself, she herself; himself, her- 
self;" e. g. kono-konone o yo-tsi, „he himself did it." 

Konoh, pr. abs. „he, she; him, her;" e.g. w'uni las konoh, „he 
is a bad person," lit. „a bad (wicked) person he." 

K'onte, pi. tr'onte, \ n. „an instrument resembling a bell with 

K'onten, pi. tr'onlen, > some rings on it to hold it with the 



— 192 — 

fingers, while it is struck with some fingers of the other 
hand." It is made of iron or brass, and used by Chiefs, 
when they wish to pause, or stop a little in speaking or in 
their address to the court, and to give a sign to their women 
to applaud him by clapping their hands. 
K'or, pi. Ir'or, n. „belly, abdomen; bowels;" also sometimes ap- 
plied to the „womb", though they have the word, ka-fantr 
ka am-poru for it, which signifies „the bed of the foetus;" 
hence it is also used of the „menses", or the „ menstruation" 
of women (cf. tru k'or), and of „pregnancy"; fig. „the inside" 
(of a thing); e.g. ak'or-k'oh ka siile, „his bowels are loose," 
— „he has diarrhoea," = o ba k'or ka-sule; — ak'6r-ka- 
mi ka bah, „my belly aches," == „I have, griping pains;" — 
ak'or ka am-poti, „the inside of the cup." Willi ro- it is 
also used as a preposition ami postposition; see rok'or. 
K'or, pi. tr'or, n. „farm"; e. g. o yi ro-k'or, „he is in the farm." 
Kori, v. a. „go to see, visit; salute;" e. g. o ko kori owontr- 
k'gh, „he went to see his brother;" — kori 'u, Pa! „I sa- 
lute thee, Sir!" 
Kos, a-, pi. e-» n-- „cheek"; e. g. e-kos-y'oh, „his cheeks." 
Kgt, v. n. „walk, go about;" e. g. kali-ko o tra kot ri, „look 
him, he is walking there;" — an-yal ane ha kot o-fino, „this 
boat walks well." 
K'ota, pi. tr'ota, n. „cloth"; e. g. kota ka-fino, „fine cloth." 
Kota, conj. = hdli, „though, although, even if;" e. g. kota w'iini 
k'in ka ah-fi-e o tra der na rohah etc., „ although one of the 
dead would come to them etc." 
Kotar, v. rel. (rad. kot), „tie on, tie" (as a cow); e. g. kotar 
o-na ka ak'antr, „tie on the cow to the post;" — kotar am- 
bil ro-kantr, „tie the canoe to the post." 
Kotsi, = kot'ri, for kotari, v. rel. and revert. „untie, loose, let 
loose" (as a cow, or a bird from a trap); e. g. kotsi am- 
bamp, „let the. bird loose;" — kotsi ah-sol, „loose the horse." 
From kot, „tie." 
Note. The r is frequently changed into s, and vice versa after t, 
as tse, ibrtre, adv. „donot,not;" or as a pr. dem. „ this, these." 



— 193 — 

Kotsine, v. rel. revert, and refl. for kotarine, „loose oneself, make 
oneself free, untie oneself" (as a cow, or horse, or a bird 
from a trap, or a person from some difficulty) ; e. g. ari-sol 
o kotsine, „the horse made himself loose." See the preced- 
ing Note. 

Kri'fi , o-, pi. a-, n. „krifi, spirit," i. e. „demon, tutelary spirit, 
genius, a being of an intermediate order between God and 
men, a sort of demigod, and in the opinion of the Temnes 
an object worthy of adoration." It answers to the Gr. 
dcafioviov or daifiwr. See Pref. §§. 11 — 13 and 6c<i(icov in 
Passow's Gr. Lexicon. The religion of the Temnes consists 
properly in the worship of these krifis. 

Krifi, adj. „belonging to a krifi," or „produced by a krifi," hence 
„snperior, extraordinary;" e. g. pa-la pa-krifi, „krifi's rice" 
(as they believe that it is not planted by men, but by 
krifis), also called: pa-yaka. Krifi is used here to indicate 
the excellency of a thing like the Hebr. D\"6n in Jon. 3, 3. 
or in Gen. 10, 9. 

Krifi, ro-, „lhe residence" or „abode of krifis and of departed 
spirits, the invisible" or „future world, hades," answering 
to the Gr. aSifi, and to the Hebr. biNtr. See Pref. § 10; 
and Tradit. p. 36—40. 

Ku, a-, pi. e-, n. „Mandingo yam" (which is while). 

Kul, adj. „smoked, dried" (as meat); e. g. o-sem o-kul, „smoked 
beef." 

Kulo, v. n. „ cry, lament;" also „low u (as a cow); „howl"; e.g. 
'a kulo traka Iron, „they lamented for him." 

Kulo, ka-, n. verb. „act of crying" or „lamenting" or „lowing; 
lamentation, crying;" e.g. ka-kulo-ka-nari, „ their lamentation." 

Kiima, pi. tr'rima, n. „box"; also „coffin"; e.g. ar'uma-ra-mu 
ra yi ro-k'uma, „thy shirt is in the box." 

Kurik, a-, pi. e-, or tra-, n. „fence, barrier, hinderance;" also 
„yard", or „lhe place fenced in;" also „the metal handle 
on a gun, because it is, as it were, a fence to protect the 
trigger"; fig. protection"; e.g. o-kara-ka-mi o yi ro-kuiik, 
„my mother is in the yard;" — a-kuiik iia yi-su ratron, 

Temne - Worterbucli . 1 3 



— 194 — 

„there is a fence between us;" — o yi-mi a-kunk, „he is 
a protection to me." 

K'upo, pi. tr'upo, \ n. „feather, pen, quill;" e.g. ak'upo-ka-mi, 

K'upa, pi. tr'iipa, ' „my pen." The full form for a writing pen 
is k'upo ka-gbala, lit, „a feather to write with." 

Kur, adj. „old, ancient" (not applied to rational beings, for which 
they use baki; but to inanimate things, and to irrational 
beings); e.g. e-16pra e-kur, „old wearing apparel," or „old 
clothes;" — o-na o-kur, „an old cow." 

K'riru, pi. tr'uru, n. „heaven, sky; deity, God." Though the 
verb. pr. for this noun according to analogy is ka; yet when 
applied to God we have employed the general form as used 
for nouns animate, i. e. o; but when used of „heaven", the 
form ka. This word may also be used of false gods. E. g. 
ak'riru ka waran tenon, „the sky is bright to day; — K'riru 
o bapar d'er 6 d'er, „God is everywhere present." It seems 
to be cognate to the Gr. 6 xvqcoc, „lord." 

K'rirumasaba, n. „God, the supreme Being." This is the most 
solemn name of the Deity. Cf. Pref. § 11. a. 

Kus, v. a. „empty" (;is a box); „pour out" (as liquids); also 
„close by a public procession and festival" (as the great fast, 
or the Ramadan of the Mohammedans; or the initiatory course 
of instruction of the Bondo Institution, after which the Bondo 
girls or women are discharged); hence also: „discharge; keep, 
hold" (as a feast); e. g. kus ak'rima, „ empty the box;" — 
'a kus an-sum tenon, „they closed the fast to day by a public 
procession;" — an-rigba o kus am-bondo tenon, lit. „the 
headvvoman of the Bondo Institution closed the Bondo cere- 
monies to day by a public procession," = „the headwoman 
of the Bondo Institution discharged the Bondo girls to day." 

Kut, n. n. „scoop water, lade water, draw water;" o ko kut, 
„he goes to scoop water." 

Kut, v. a. scoop, draw, lade" (as water); e. g. sa ko kut m'antr, 
„we go to draw water." 

Kuta. v. rel. „scoop-for-, liide-for-, draw-for-" (as water); e. g. 
o kuta-mi m'antr, „he scooped water for me." 



— 195 — 

Kiita, v. a. „plant, sow" (as rice), lit. „cover over" (the rice 
sown); e. g. sa ko kuta pa-la, „we go to plant rice." 

Kwea, o-, pi. a-, n. „one of the Quea people, a Quea Temne." 
See Pref. § 4. a. 

Kwi, o-, or a-, pi. tra-, n. „alligator." 

L. 

La, v. n. „be full, increase, be numerous, be plentiful, be abun- 
dant;" e. g. akaro ka la, „the bowl is full;" — ah-fam na 
la ri, „the people are numerous there." 

La, v. rel. „be full of, be full with, be filled with;" e. g. ak'6ro 
ka la m'antr, „the bowl is full of water;" — q la ka-tsemp, 
„he was full of wisdom." 

La, ka-, pi. pa-, n. „rice". The sing, is hardly ever used. E. g. 
pa-la pa-fino, „fine rice." 

La, v. aux. „use, be used;" it indicates habit of exercising the 
energy, denoted by the verb, and often serves to express 
the adverbs „habitually, usually, always," and is construed 
with the short form of the Infinitive; e. g. mo o la yo, „as 
he used to do;" — mo mo la yo, „as he is used to do;" 
— o la ko ri, „he used to go there;" — me me la yo, 
„as I usually do." It answers to the Lat. soleo. 

Lafti, v. a. „turn upside down, reverse, turn over" (as a leaf, 
or as a fish on a grate), „turn up; shift" (as a sail); „turn" 
(as a canoe its proper course); e. g. lafli am-bil, „lurn the 
canoe upside down;" — lafti am-bela, „shift the sail." 

Lai, v. n. „be many, be numerous, be plentiful, be great;" ap- 
plied to the sun „be" or „stand still high (above the 
horizon);" e. g. ma-lemre ma la! ri, „limes are plentiful 
there." 

Lai, adj. „many, numerous, great;" e. g. a-fam a-lal, „many per- 
sons;" r'unia ra-lal, „a great multitude." 

Lai, o-, adj. but used adverbially „much"; e. g. o fof o-lai traka 
troh, „he spoke much about him." 

Lakat, a-, pi. e-, n. „stump of a tree, trunk of a tree, after its 

13* 



— 196 - 

head," or „branches have been cut off;" e. g. o botr-ni ka 

ah-lakat, „he put it on the slump." 
Lakte, v. n. „look up, lift up the eyes, look upwards;" e. g. 

o lakte, „he looked up." 
Lai, a-, pi. e-, or tra-, n. „grass-field, pasture-field;" e. g. o yi 

ro-lal, „he is on the grass-field." 
Lama, a-, pi. e-, n. ,.locust"; e. g. e-lama e-lal, „many locusts." 
Lambe, a-, pi. e-, n. „present in token of respect" or „hoinage, 

homage, present; e.g. 'a kere-ko a-lambe, „they carried a 

present to him in token of respect" (as to a king); — ha 

yo-ko a-lambe, „they did homage to him." 
Lane, v. a. „believe. believe in, trust in, confide in;" e. g. o 

lane he tsi, „he does not believe it;" — o lane Yisua, „he 

believes in Jesus." 
Lane, v. n. „believe, confide;" e. g. o lane he, „he does not 

believe." 
Lane, ka-, n. verb. „act of believing" or „of trusting in; be- 
lieving, faith, confidence;" e. g. ka-lane-k'oh, „his faith;" — 

ka-lane-ko, „the act of believing in him." 
Lahba, o-, pi. a-, n. „a young man, a man," espec. „a young 

man dressed in a showy manner to attract the attention of 

females;" e.g. kali o-lahba o-fino, „look a fine young man." 
Lank, a-, pi. e, n. „thigh; leg" (as of meat); in the pi. „the 

lap;" e. g. ow'ahet o fanta ka e-lahk ya o-kara-k'oh, „the 

little child lies in the lap of its mother." 
Lanka, v. a. „swing" (as in a hammock); ,.stir up" (as rice in 

a bowl of water, so that the stones may settle down, when 

washing it); e. g. 'a lahka-ko ro-tenta, „they swung him in 

the hammock." 
Lansa, adv. „ perhaps; e. g. lansa o der, „perhaps he comes." 
Lap, v. a. „stir up, keep up, poke" (as fire by putting its fuel 

in order or together); e. g. lap an'antr, „stir up the fire." 
Lap, v. n. „be ashamed, be modest;" e. g. ha lap tra yo-.tsi, 

„they are ashamed to do it." 
Lap, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „shame, modesty;" e. g. o ba ma- 
lap, or: o ba i-lap, „he is ashamed," lit. „he has shame;" 



— 197 — 

— o won ma-lap, „he got ashamed," lit. „he entered (into) 

shame." The sing, is seldom used. 
Lapar, v. rel. „be ashamed of-;" also ,.forgive"; e. g. o w'an, 

1 lapar-mu gbo! „oh boy, I am but ashamed of thee!" o 

lapar-mi, „he forgave me." 
Lapar, ka-, n. verb. „act of being ashamed of, act of forgiving, 

forgiveness;" e. g. ka-lapar-k'oh, „his forgiveness." 
Lapatr, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „a burning stick, a fire-brand, torch;" 

e. g. fil aka-lapatr, „turn the torch to and fro" or „round" 

(to keep it burning). 
Lapra, a-, pi. e-, n. „a skull-cap, cap;" e. g. a-lapra a-fino, „a 

fine cap." 
Lap'ro, i v. doubl. rel. for lapara, (rad. lap), „forgive-to-," lit. 
Lap'ra, > „be ashamed of (one) for" or „on account of" (a thing); 

e. g. o lap'ro-mi-tsi, „he forgave it to me." 
Lap'ro, \ ka-, n. verb. „act of forgiving-to-, forgiving, forgive- 
Lap'ra, * ness; e.g. ka-lap'ro-k'oh, „his forgiveness." 
Lap'so, i v. caus. and inch. lit. „get made late, get made last, 
Lap'sa, ' gel finished," hence „be last." As an aux. it serves 

to express the adv. „last", or „the last time;" e. g. kono 

lap'so der, „he came last;" — me I lap'so nan'-ko, „when 

I last saw him." It is construed with the short form of the 

Infinitive, and is derived from the obs. root lap, „be late," 

for which they now use the inch, form lapo, „get late, be 

late." 
Lap'so, \ adj. „last, hindmost;" e. g. ka an-re'i a-lap'60, „on 
Lap'sa, > the last day;" — aha yi a-lap'so, „they who are last." 
Lap'so, \ ka-, n. verb. „state of being last, end; e. g. I yema 
Lap'sa, ' nahk ka-lap'so ka ka-trak, „I want to see the end of 

the palaver." The def. form is sometimes used to express 

the adv. ,,the last hime," for which see ka-lap'so under k; 

as also for: ka ka-lap'so in the sense of „at last." 
Lap'so ka-, ka-, sec ka-lapso ka- under k. 
Las, v. caas. pass. (rad. la), „be filled," hence also „be full" (as 

bottles, or as the moon); e. g. ah'of ha yema las, „the moon 

wants to get full," = „is about to be full." 



— 198 — 

Las, adj. „filled, full;" e. g. an of a-las, „the full-moon." 

Las, v. n. ,,be bad" (morally and physically); „be wicked, be 
evil; be ugly" (as a person); e. g. ow'uni owe o las gba, 
,,this person is very wicked." 

Las, adj. „bad; wicked, evil; ugly;" e. g. o-bera o-las, „an ugly 
woman." 

Las, o-, adj. but used adverbially „badly, amiss, wrong;" e. g. 
'a rusam-ko o-las, „they brought him up badly;" — o yo- 
mi o-las; „he treated me badly;" — o yo-tsi o-las, „he did 
it amiss." Cf. also yo o-las, under Y. 

Las, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „badness, wickedness, iniquity, bad 
character, evil; e. g. o ba ma-las, „he is of a bad character," 
lit. „he has a bad ch." or „badness" ; — ahai-las-hoh, = 
ma-las-m'oh, „his wickedness." The sing, is but seldom used. 

Lasa, v. inch. (rad. las), „get bad, get spoiled" or „corrupted" (as 
rice); „get ugly" (as one's face by age or sirkness); as applied 
to the womb, or to the embryo „abort"; e. g. apa-la pa lasa, 
„the rice got spoiled;" — ak'or-k'on ka lasa, „she aborted," 
= „she had an abortion," lit. „her womb got spoiled." See 
also poru. 

Liisane, v. caus. rel. and refl. (rad. la), „fill for oneself" (as a vessel); 
also „be filled with-, be full with-" (as a sail with wind); lit. 
„fill itself with-;" e. g. am-bela na lasane a-fef, „the sail is 
full with wind;" — o lasane ak'aro, „he filled the bowl for 
himself." 

Lasar, v. caus. and rel. (rad. la), „fill up, fill, make full" (as a vessel, 
or as wind a sail) ; „fulfil" (as one's word or promise) ; e. g. 
ah-fef na lasar am-bela, „the wind fills the sail;" — am'antr 
ma hisar ak'aro, „the water fills the bowl;" — Q lasar ar'im 
ara o trah-ha, „he fulfilled the word, which he promised 
to them." 

Lasar, caus. rel. and pass. „be filled up, be full" (as a vessel, or 
sail); „be fulfilled" (as a promise); fig. „be complete" (as a 
number) ; e. g. ak'aro ka lasar, „the bowl is filled up" = „is 
full;" — am-bela ha lasar, „the sail is full;" — am'antr ma 
tra lasar, „the tide is getting full." 



— 199 — 

Lasar, v. caus. (rad. las), „make bad, spoil, corrupt ;" also ,, transgress, 
violate" (as a law); lit. „act badly towards;" — o lasar apa-lS, 
„he spoiled the rice;" also „profane" (as a sacred place). 

Lasarne, v. caus. and refl. „spoil" or ,, corrupt oneself, make 
oneself offensive; offend, sin;" e. g. o lasarne ka K'uru, „he 
sinned against God;" — lit. ,,act badly towards oneself" = 
„make oneself bad." 

Lekane, v. recipr. (rad. lek), „lie with each other, have sexual 
commerce with each other" (as man and wife; but also used 
of an unlawful sexual commerce); hence „commit impurity 
with each other;" e. g. 'a ta lekane he, „they had no sexual 
commerce with each other as yet." 

Lei, a-, or i-, pi. ma-; or sing, a-, pi. e-, n. „country-bean;" e.g. 
ha di gbo ma-lel, „lhey ate only country-beans." 

Lela, v. impers. caus. (rad. lei), „make tired, tire;" e.g. pa ta lela 
he mi, „I have not yet got tired," lit. „it did not yet tire me," 
(the inch, sense is implied in the form of the verb. pr. ; — 
o lela-mi, „I am tired," lit. „it tired me." The object be- 
comes the subject with such impers. verbs in an Eng. trans- 
lation. 

Lemp, adv. „quickly, straightways; fast; abruptly;" e. g. der ba 
lemp-a, „come here quickly;" — o gbiike lemp, „he ran fast." 

Lemp-lemp, adv. intens. or emph. „very quickly; very fast;" 
e.g. an'ei na lolas apa-la lemp-lemp, „the sun ripens the 
rice very fast." 

Lemne, v. a. „bid farewell to;" e. g. o lemne-mi tenon, „he bid 
farewell to me to day." 

Lemre, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „lime, species of lemon;" e. g. 
ma-lemre ma-lal, „many limes." 

Leh, v. n. „sing"; ah-fet ahe ha leh o-ffno, „ these children sing 
well." Also „blossom, get blossoms." 

Leh, v. a. „sing"; e. g. ha leh i-leh, „they sung a hymn." 

Leh, ka-, n. verb. „act of singing, singing;" e. g. ka-leh-k'oh, „his 
singing." 

Leh, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „song, hymn, poem;" also „air, tune;" 
e. g. ah -leh ahe ha rami o-boli-tral, „this song sounds 



— 200 — 

sweetly," lit. „this song sounds sweet to hear;" — i-leh 

i-tofal, „a soft tune." 
Lena, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „tail"; e. g. wop o-na ka ka-leha, „hold 

the cow by the tail;" — ka-leha ka-boli, „a long tail." 
Leni, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „flower; blossom;" e. g. ma-lehi raa- 

fino, „fine flowers." 
Lehken, ka-, pi. tra-, n. neighbouring yard." With ro- it be- 
comes a prep, or a postp., as also an adv. See rolehken. 
Lehki, v. a. „serve" (as God); „wait upon, attend to, attend" 

(as a servant his master); also „treat well;" e. g. o lehki-mi 

o-fino, „he serves me well;" — o lehki o-tsik, „he treated 

the stranger well." 
Leh'sir, i v. freq. or intens. and rel. (rad. leh), ,.praise" or „cele- 
Len'sir, ' brate by singing," lit. „sing about-;" e. g. 'a leh'sir- 

ko tenon, „they celebrated him by singing to day;" also „mock 

by a satirical song." 
Lim, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „neck" (as of a person, or of a bottle); 

e. g. ka-lim ka am-bitra, „the neck of the bottle." 
Limba, o-, pi. a-, n. „one of the Limba nation, a Limba." See 

Pref. § 4. c. 
Limba, adj. „belonging to the Limba nation" or „country, limba;" 

e. g. an-tof a-limba, „the Limba country." 
Lin, v. a. „draw close" (as a person); „draw, pull, haul; draw 

up" (as an anchor); e. g. lin ara-beha o-bakar, „draw the 

rope tight;" — lin ah-fatr, „dra\v up the anchor." 
Lin, v. n. „draw, pull;" e. g. w'an, lih o-flno! „boy, pull well!" 
Lo, a-, n. „time"; also „turn"; e. g. me I kane-mu ah-lo fia- 

tsi, „as I told thee that time;" — ah-lo ha-tsi gbeu, „thal 

very time;" — ah-lo-'a-mi hia-he, „this is my turn." 
Lo ha-tsi, ah-, „at that time, !hen;" e. g. ah-lo na-tsi ra-fi ra 

yi he, „at that time there was no death." 
Lo hoh, » „the other day, lately, a short time ago;" e. g. 'a 
Lo hah, ' yema dif-ko lo hoh, „they wanted to kill him the 

other day." 
Loko, v. n. ,, germinate, grow, sprout, come" or „shoot forth" 

(as seed sown); e. g. pa-la pa loko, „rice shoots forth." 



— 201 — 

Loko, v. a. „grow, bring forth, produce;" e. g. an-tof ane ria 
loko pa-la pa-fino, „this ground produces good rice." 

Loko, a-, or i-, pi. e-, or ma-, n. „time"; also „day"; e.g. a a - 
loko ane, „this time;" — ma-loko ma-sas, „three times;" 
— a-loko a-foI-tr'eT, „a convenient time;" — 1 ko he ri, 
hali a-loko h'ih, „1 did not go there even once;" — ah- 
loko ria-tsi taho tenon, „that time (is) not to day;" — a- 
loko a-beki tra kone hia-rie, „this is a fit time to go," lit. 
„a fit time to go it this." Cf. the pref. i- under the 
„Addenda" behind. 

Loko, o-, pi. a-, i). „one of the Loko nation, a Loko." See 
Pref. § 4. c. 

Loko, adj. „belonging to the Loko country" or „nation"; e.g. 
aii-tof a-loko, „the Loko country." 

Loko lorn, \ = ka a-loko loin, „at a certain time, some time, 

Loko lorn, a- ' once, one day, some day, by and by; ii e.g. 1 tsi 
der kori-mu loko lorn, ,,1 shall come to see thee some day." 

Loko lorn, a-, „another time, another day, some other day;" 
e. g. I tsi ko ro-Kamp a-loko lorn, „1 shall go to Freetown 
some other day." 

Loko 6 loko, „ always; from time to time, now and then," lit. 
„time and time;" e. g. ye I me yo loko 6 loko, „thus I 
always do;" — o der romi loko 6 loko, „he comes to me 
now and then." 

Lol, v. n. „get ripe" (as fruit), „be ripe;" e. g. ma-lemre ma 
tra lol, „limes are getting ripe." Also „get red hoi, get 
fit for the hammer" (as iron). It is the short form of loli, 
„be ripe." See the Note after wos, v. n. below. 

Lol, v. n. „be small, be little," e. g. o-na owe o lol, „this cow 
is small." 

Lol, adj. „small, little;" e. g. w'uni lol, „a little person." 

Lorn, v. n. „count, reckon;" e. g. o gbali lorn o-fino, „he can 
count well." 

Lorn, v. a. „count, reckon;" also „ tell , relate;" e.g. lorn ah- 
kala ahe a-fera, „count this cash;" — mo o lorn am-pa, 
„when he related the matter." 



— 202 — 

Lom, ka-, n. verb. „act of counting" or „of reckoning;" e. g- 
ka-lom-ha, „the act of counting them;" — a-fam a-lai na 
yi ri, na tasi ka-lom, „many persons are there, they are not 
to count," lit. ,. — — they exceed counting." 

Lom, adj. „other, another, some, certain; such and such; next;" 
e. g. w'uni lom, „a certain person;" — a-fam a-lom na der 
romi tenon, „some persons came to me to day." 

Lome, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „sheep"; e.g. ka-lome ka-bana, „a large 
sheep." 

Lomp, v. impers. „be right, be proper, be fit;" e. g. o lomp he 
nan-i? „was it not right?" — pa lomp fe tra yo atr'ei atse, 
„it will not be right to do this thing." It is the short form 
of the impers. v. lompi, which see below. 

Lompar, v. caus. (rad. lomp), „load" (as a gun); „set" (as a trap); 
lit. prob. „make fit at;" e. g. Ise so lompar am-pinkar, „do 
not load the gun again." 

Lompi, v. impers. „be right, be proper;" e. g. o-16mpi, „it is 
right." 

Lompi, adj. „proper, right; righteous; fit, exact;" e. g. ma-pant 
ma-16mpi, „exact work;" — w'uni lompi, „a righteous person." 

Lompi, ma-, n. „righteousness, justice, propriety, fitness, exact- 
ness;" ma-lompi-m'ou, „his righteousness;" — o ba ma- 
lompi, „he is righteous;" — ma-16mpi-ma-tsi, „lhe propriety 
of it," 

Lon, v. a. „pour out, shed, spill" (as liquids); „upset" (as a 
vessel with liquid, or as a storm a canoe); e. g. Ion am'antr, 
„pour out the water." 

Loha, i v. inch. „get spilled; run over, overflow" (as water); 

Loho, ' „capsize, upset, sink, perish" (as a canoe, or people at 
sea); e. g. am'antr ma lona, „the water ran over;" — am- 
bil na loha ro-bah, „lhe canoe upset at sea;" — an-fam ha 
loho ro-m'antr, „the people perished in the water." 

Lop, ka-, pi. e-, n. „fish"; e. g. kali, ka-lop ka-bana! „look, a 
large fish!" 

Lopra, adj. „belonging to dressing" or „clothing"; also „dres- 
sed;" e.g. y'etr e-16pra, „clothes" or „wearing apparel." 



— 203 — 

Losir, v. a. „clothe, dress, give clothes to;" e. g. o 16sir-mi, 
„he clothed me." Also „wrap in" (as a corpse in cloth). 

M. 

M', pref. indef. and insep. „a, an;" e. g. m'antr, „water; tide," 
for ma-antr. 

Ma-, pref. indef. ,,a, an;" e. g. ma-bone ma-bana, „a great joy." 

Ma, adv. „how, as," = me and mo; this form is used before 
words with, or before the vowel a; e g. ar'im ra Kiiru ra 
trori-su, ma sa ba tra ramne K'uru. ,,the word of God tells 
us, how we are to worship God." 

Ma, adv. „when, after; while, as," = me and mo; this form is 
used before words with, or before the vowel a; e. g. ka ma 
ha nan— ko, ha tsela-ko, .,and when they saw him, they 
called him;" — ma ha dlra, „while they slept;" — ma na 
ma gbal-e, ,, while they were writing." 

Ma, prep. poss. ,,of"; e. g. ma-tot ma K'uru, ,,the goodness of 
God." 

Ma, conj. „as, because," = me and mo; this form is used be- 
fore words with, or before the vowel a; e. g. ma an-fam 
ahe ha keia e-troko, tsfa som o-bal o sompa-ha, „because 
these people stole fowls, therefore the king punished them." 

Ma — ? adv. „why?" = me and mo, this form is used before words 
with, or before the vowel a, and this sense the forms ma, 
me and mo have, if they are followed by the inier. suff. -a? 
at the end of the proposition. The verb, pronouns of the 
2d. pers. sing, and pi. are sometimes contracted with this 
adv., the vowel of the pr. being cut off; and in the 3d. pers. 
plur. they may use 'a after ma? instead of ha. The. form 
ma? is used with the 2d. pers. sing, and with all three per- 
sons in the pi.; the 2d. pers. sing takes the form man, be- 
fore g and k, which is for: ma an, or also mam, before b, 
m and p, which is for: ma ma, or for ma am; and in the 
2d. pers. pi. they may use the form man, for ma na. E. g. 
ma ma trahk-a? „why art thou silent?" — man yo yah-a? 
or: ma ma yo yah-a? „why doest thou do so?" — mam 



— 204 — 

bes ano-a? „why doest thou dig here?" — ma mam bes 
ano-a? „why art thou digging here?" — man bes ano-a? 
„why do ye dig here?" — ma na ma bes ano-a? „whv are 
ye digging here?" — ma 'a bes ano-a? „Avhy do they dig 
here?" for ma na bes ano-a? 
Ma, part. = me and ma, used for various purposes: 

1) for to express the Participle, and the Present, and some- 

times also the Future tenses, in the 2d. pers. sing., and 
in all three pers. of the pi.; if the form mina „I" is used 
for the I st - pers. sing., they may also employ it for this 
person; otherwise they use the form me, which see be- 
low. E. g. be ma pon an-gbalah, ko ma ma som-e? „if 
thou hast done with the rock, what wilt thou eat?" — 
ma na ma gbal-e, „ while they were writing;" — re man 
ko-e? „ where art thou going to?" — See more examples 
in the Traditions. The 2d. pers. sing, may also take the 
forms man, and mam. What has been stated about these 
two contracted or euph. forms under the preceding word 
ma? applies also here. Cf. also the part, tra under T, as 
used to form the Future. 

2) for the Obligative Mood in the sense of „must, were, had." 

Sometimes ma alone stands for ha ma- or for 'a ma-, 
„they must, they were, they had," in this Mood. For 
the 2d. pers. sing, they may also here use the contr. or 
euph. forms man and mam, about which see under ma? 
above, and sometimes ma alone. E. g. ma ma pa he ho 
I kone, = mam pa he. ho I kone, „thou must not say 
that I am gone;" — ha ma pa he ho o kone, „they must 
not say that he is gone away." The form ma is used 
with this Mood for the 2d. pers. sing., and for all three 
pers. in the pi., as also for the 1st. pers. sing., if the pr. 
mina is used. It may be observed here with regard to 
the contr. forms, that the part, and the verb. pr. are some- 
times transposed without affecting the sense. 

3) for the Hortative Mood in the sense of „let", and Jet us". 
a) If ma is used in the sense of „let", the verb. pr. follows. 



— 205 — 

as: ma ma pa he ho I kone, „let Ihee not say that I 
am gone." But also here, instead of mama, they may 
use the contr. or euph. forms man or mam, according 
as euphony may require it. (Cf. about these forms the 
adv. ma? above.) 
b) If ma is used in the sense of „let us," it is not followed 
by the verb, pr.; except if more than two persons are 
spoken of, in which case the pr. nan „ye" follows the 
verb. When ma has this sense, it takes the euph. forms 
mam, man and man; viz. mam before b, m and p; man 
before d, n and t ; and man before g and k. E. g. man 
dl nan, „let us eat," lit, „let us eat ye;" — ma fanta, 
„let us lie down;" — man k<jne, „let us go." When 
used in the sense of „let" ma is used for the 2d. pers. 
sing., and for all three persons in the plural. 
Note. When the particles ma, mam, man and man are fol- 
lowed by a verb with a pers. object, they may be given by 
„come now!" as: mam pala-mi! „come now accompany me!" 
= „come now with me!" 

More particulars about the particles ma, me and mo will 
be found in the Grammar. 
Ma, pr. subj. „thou"; e. g. ma gbali he yo-t.si. „thou canst nol 

do it." 
Ma-mi, pr. poss. „my", lit. „ofme;" e.g. ma-lemre-ma-mi, „my 

lemons." 
Ma mu, pr. poss. „thy", lit. „ofthee;" e.g. am'aro-ma-mu, „thy 

palmoil." 
Ma-nan, pr. poss. „1heir", lit. „of them;" e.g. ma-lemre-ma- 

nan, ,, their lemons." 
Ma-nu, pr. poss. „your", lit. „ofyou;" e.g. ma-yi-ma-nu, „your 

state." 
Ma-tsi, pr. poss. neut. „its, their;" e. g. ma-komi-ma-tsi, „its 

fruit." 
Ma-tsi, pr. dem. log. „that, those;" e. g. ma-yos ma-tsi, „those 

deeds." 
Malane, v. refl. n. ,,agree, consent to, agree to, assent;" e. g. 
o malane he, „he did not agree to." 



— 206 — 

Malane, v. refl. a. „accept, receive, agree to" (as to an opinion, 
etc.); „approve of, consent to; embrace, welcome, receive 
with pleasure" (as a stranger); e.g. sa malane-tsi, „we agree 
to it;" — o malane o-tsik, „he received the stranger with 
pleasure." 

Maleika, o-, pi. a-, n. „angel"; Mand. maleika. From the Ar. 

<*5jLe, angelus. 

Mam — ? „why doest thou — ?" for: ma ma, or for: ma am. 
See the adv. ma? above. 

Mam, for: ma ma, or for: ma ma; see the part, ma, 1. 2. and 
3. a above. 

Mam, euph. form of ma, for which see the part, ma, 3. b. above. 

M'amo, n. „thanks". It is often used as an int. in the sense 
of ,.thank you!" or „have thanks!" lit. „thanks!" E. g. 
m'£mo, pa! „thank thee, Sir!" In order to express emphasis 
it is repeated, as m'amo! m'amo! „thank you! thank you!" 
It is also used as a sign of approbation by a master to his 
people, when working well; and as a sign of congratulation 
to parents at the birth of a child; in both these cases it is 
generally repeated, as: m'amo nan 6! m'amo nan 6! „thank 
you! thank you!" or „ that's right! that's right!" or like the 
Ger. „ bravo! bravo!" — m'amo nan 6, nyah a-baf! „that is 
right, ye farmers !" Cf. also: mutsi w'uni m'amo below. 

Man, euph. form of ma, for which see the part, ma, 3. b. above. 

Man — ? „why doest thou — ?" for: ma an. See the adv. ma? 

Man, for: ma an, or for: ma ma, or ma ma; see the part, ma, 
1. 2. and 3. a. 

Man, euph. form of ma, for which see the part ma, 3. b. 

Man, v. a. „admonish, exhort, advise; bid; warn, chastise;" e.g. 
o mah-ko tra yo-lsi, „he exhorted him to do it;" — o-kas- 
k'on o tra mah-ko, „his father will chastise him." Before 
m the h is also changed into m for the sake of euphony. 

Man, ka-, or a-, pi. e-, n. „ exhortation, admonition; counsel, 
advice; warning, chastisement;" e. g. a-mah a-ninis, „an aw 
ful warning;" — ka-man ka-fino, „a good counsel." 



— 207 — 

Mane, o-, pi. a-, n. „friend"; e. g. o-mane-ka-mi, „my friend." 

Mane, ma-, n. friendship, agreement, concord;" e.g. ma-mane 
ma-nah, „their friendship." 

Mank, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „maize, indian corn." 

Mank, v. a. „hide, conceal; disguise;" also „bury" ; e.g. o mank 
an-tis, „he hid the knife;" — o maiik e-nane-y'oh, „he 
disguised his Ihoughts;" — 'a bene-ko ro-tof, „they buried 
him in the ground." Also „keep-from-, hide -before-" or 
„from-", as tse mi tsi mank. „do not hide it from me." 

Mank, adj. „hiding, concealing;" pass. „ hidden, concealed;" e.g. 
r'a ra-mank, „a hidden thing." 

Mankne, v. refl. a. „hide oneself for-, waylay, lie in ambush 
for-;" also „hide oneself from-" or „ before. — ; hide-with" 
or „on oneself;" e. g. 'a mankne-mi ro-r'oh, „they lay in 
ambush for me in the road;" — o mahkne-ria, „he hid him- 
self from them;" — o mankne a-balma, „he concealed a 
dagger on his person (body)." 

Mankne, v. refl. n. „hide" or „conceal oneself;" e.g. ha mankne 
ro-set, „they hid themselves in the house." 

Mankne, adj. „hidden, concealed, secret;" e.g. tr'ei tra mankne, 
„a hidden thing" or „matter". 

M'ahle, 

M'anle, 

M'antr, n. „\vater"; also „soup" or „beef-tea; tide;" e. g. m'antr 
ma-boti, „good water," lit. „sweet water," i. e. not salt, but 
fit to drink; — m'antr ma-baki, „a strong tide." 
M'antrar, pi. of ii'antrar, which see. 

Mar, v. a. „help, assist;" e. g. o mar-mi, „he assisted me." 
Mar, v. impers. a. „be right" or „proper for, befit, behove, be- 
come;" e. g. pa mar-ko tra yo-tsi, „it behoves him" or „it 
will become him to do it." 
Mar, v. aux. indicating duty and propriety, and expressing the 
Engl. „ought". It is constr. with the long and with the 
short form of the Infinitive. E. g. ma mar tra yo-tsi, „thou 
oughtcst to do it;" — o mar tsi yo, „he ought to do it." 



} adj. num. „four"; e. g. ma-lemre m'anle, „ four limes." 



— 208 — 

Mar-tr'el, ka-, n. Juckiness, happiness;" e. g. ka-mar-tr'el-k'on 
or ka-mar-k'o-tr'el, „his luckiness." 

Mara, v. n. „burn, flame" (as fire). See n'antr, „fire". 

Marat-marat, adv. onom. „ making marat-marat." This word can- 
not be given otherwise; it is always used with trom, Rumi- 
nate", indicating the sound which ruminating or chewing the 
cud causes. See Fables p. 62. 

Mari, ma-, n. „right, propriety, justice;" e. g. kono ba ma-mari, 
„he is in the right;" it is the contrary of ma-teri, „wrong". 

Mari-tr'ei, v. n. „be lucky, be fortunate, have good luck, be 
happy;" e. g. kon' mari-tr'ei, „he is lucky." 

Mari-tr'el, adj. „lucky, fortunate, happy;" e. g. w'lini mari-tr'el, 
„a lucky person." 

M'aro, d. „fat; palmoil;" e.g. m'aro ma-las, „bad palmoil." 

Matas, v. a. freq. (rad. mat), „immerse repeatedly, dip repeatedly, 
baptize;" e.g. 'a matas-ko ro-m'anlr, „they dipped him into 
the water repeatedly." 

Me, adv. „how, as," = ma and mo; this form is used before 
words with, or before the vowels e and i; e. g. o trori-mi, 
me I ba tra yo-tsi, „he showed me how I am to do it;" — 
me; me la yo, „as I use to do." 

Me, adv. „when, after; while, as," = ma and mo; this form is 
used before words with, or before the vowels e and i; e. g. 
me me gbal-e, „while I was writing;" — ke me 1 nan'-ko, 
1 tsela-ko, ,,and when I saw him, I called him." 

Me, pr. dem. prox. for ame, used for the comp. dem. pr. mia- 
me, which see. 

Me, conj. ,, because, as," = ma and mo; this form is used be- 
fore words with, or before the vowels e and i; e. g. mine, 
me 1 tse yo ma-pant, I soto he a-ram, „I, because I did 
no work, (1) got no pay." 

Me — ? adv. „why ?" — ma and mo ; this form is used before words 
with, or before the vowels e and i, and this sense me has, 
if it is followed by the inter, suff. -a? at the end of the 
proposition, with which it is used. This form is only used 
for the 1st. pers. sing., and the verb. pr. I is generally dropped 



— 209 — 

after me, if another me as the sign of the participle follows. 
E. g. me I bes ano-a? „why do I dig here?' — me me bes 
ano-a? „why am I digging here?" for: me 1 me bes etc.? 
Me, part. == ma and mo, used for various purposes: 

1) for to express the Participle, and the Present, and some- 

times also the Future tenses. This form is only used in 
the 1st. pers. sing.; the verb. pr. I is then generally drop- 
ped, so that me stands for: I me; e. g kono me tila-'n, 
„him I am selling;" — mina me der-an, „I am coming'." 
— ye me la yo, „thus 1 am always doing," for: ye 1 me 
la yo. Cf. also the part, tsi under 1, as used to form 
the Future. 

2) for the Obligative Mood in the sense of „must, was, had;" 

but me alone often stands for: 1 me, „l must, 1 am, I was, 
I had," as is also the case when used for the participle 
etc., as stated under 1. above. The form me expresses 
the Oblig. Mood in the 1st. pers. sing. only. E. g. me pa 
he ho o kone, = I me pa he ho o kone, „1 must not 
say that he is gone." 

3) for the Hortative Mood in the sense of Jet", and „let me". 

Also with this Mood me is only used for the 1st. pers. sing. 

a) If me is used in the sense of „let", the verb. pr. 1 may 

follow; but it is also often, or generally, dropped, so 
that me stands for: me 1, „let me,-- lit. „let i;" e. g. 
me I pa he ho o kone, or: me pa he ho o kone, „let 
me not say that he is gone.- 

b) If me is used in the sense of „let me," the verb. pr. I 

is of course dropped, as: me pa he ho o kone, „let me 
not say that he is gone,'' and thus inav coincide with 
the form under a, above. 
Memar, v. rel. (rad. mem), „try, attempt, endeavour; prove, put 
to the test," lit. „make an attempt at-;" e. g. o memar ka- 
gbal, „he tried to write," lit. „he attempted writing." 
Mer, v. a. „swallow;" e. g. tse trom-hi, mer-hi gbo, „do not 
chew it, swallow it only." 

Temne - Worteibuch. 14 



— 210 — 

Mer, ra-, pi. tra-, sometimes na-, n. „tongue"; e. g. ra-mer-r'on, 
,,his tongue." 

M'er, n. „salt", e. g. m'er ma-lal, „much salt." 

Mera, a-, pi. e-, n. „mind, hearl (as the seat of understanding, 
not the organ), understanding, sense; conscience; temper; 
it is properly the intellectual part of man;" e. g. o ba he 
a-mera, „he has no sense;" — am-mera-h'oh na kira-ko, 
,,his mind (conscience) troubles him;" — am-mera aha 'a 
komane-ko, „his natural temper," lit. „the mind they bear 
him with." 

Mero, adj. ,,left" (in opposition to „right"); e. g. ka-tra ka-mero, 
„the right hand." 

Mero, ka-, n. ,,the right hand" (where ka-tra, „hand" is to be 
understood). 

Mesa, a-, pi. e-. n. „table". From the Span, mesa; e. g. a-m£sa 
a-lol, ,,a small table." 

M'etr, pi. of n'etr, n. ,,a fixed time, time, period; festival." The 
sing, is hardly ever used. E. g. m'etr ma-boli, „a long pe- 
riod;" — ha yo m'etr ma-bana, „they hold a great festival." 

Mi, pr. obj. ,,me'; e. g. o sap-mi, „he flogged me." 

Mia, pr. emph. „it, this; they, them, these;" e. g. am'aro-ma-mi 
mia yi tsi, „this is my palm-oil." 

Mia-me, pr. dem. comp. ,,this, these," lit. „it (is) this, they (are) 
these." See an ex. under h'es, ,,name" below. 

Mian, pr. abs. ,,it, this; they, them, these;" e. g. am'es-ma-hah 
miah, „these are their names," lit. „their names (are) these." 
(Cf. - h under N.) 

M'im, n. „liver"; e. g. m'im ma-bana, „a large liver." 

Min', pr. emph. abbr. „1; me;" e. g. min' taho yo-tsi, ,,it is not 
1 who did it." 

Min a, \ pr. emph. „I; me;" e. g. mina yo atr'ei atse, „I did 

Mine, J this thing." 

Mlnah, pr. abs. ,,I; me;" e. g. minah-i? ,,is it 1?" 

Min I a, v. n. ,,be bold, venture, dare;" e. g. o minta tra fof, „he 
ventures to speak." 

Minta, v. a „dare, venture, face, dare to face, dare to go near 



— 211 — 

to-, dare to vie with-, dare to compete with-, be a match 
for-;" e. g. o minta he ko, ,,he does not dare to face him" 
or also ,,he is no match for him." 
Misidi, j a-, pi. e-, n. „mosque, church;" Mand. misero. From 

f G - 

Misidi, the Ar. <X^sa**xi, oratorium, templum Muhammedis as- 
Misiri, ) seclarum. 

5 o 

Misra, n. „Egypt". From the Ar. wo**, Egyptus. 

Mo, adv. „how, as," = ma and mc; this form is used before 
words with, or before the vowels o and u; e. g. ma trara 
mo o yo-tsi-i? „doest thou know how he did it?" — mo 
mo la yo, „as he uses to do." 

Mo, adv. „when, after; while, as," = ma and me; this form is 
used before words with, or before the vowels o and u; e. g. 
mo o lapso mil nahk, „when he last saw thee;" — mo o 
poh kone, ha yira traka di, „after he had left, they sat 
down to eat;" — mo mo dfra-e, „while he was sleeping." 

Mo, conj. „because, as," = ma and me; this form is used be- 
fore words with, or before the vowels o and u; e. g. kono, 
mo o tse yo ma-pant, o soto he a-ram, „he, because he 
did no work, got no pay." 

Mo — ? adv. „why?" = ma and me; this form is used before 
words with, or before the vowels o and u; and this sense mo 
has, if it is followed by the inter, suff. -a? at the end of the 
proposition, with which it is used. This form is only used 
for. the 3d. pers. sing., and the verb. pr. o is generally drop- 
ped after mo, if another mo, as the sign of the participle 
follows. E. g. mo o bes ano-a? „why does he dig here?" 
— mo mo bes ano-a? „why is he digging here?" for: mo 
mo bes ano-a? 

Mo, prep. „ according to;" e. g. o yo mo ar'im ra o-kas-k'on, 
„he did according to the command of his father.'- This form 
does not change its vowel for the sake of euphony. 

Mo, part. = ma and me, used for various purposes: 
1) for to express the Participle, and the Present, and some- 
times also the Future tenses. This form is only used in 

14* 



— 212 — 

the 3d. pers. sing.; the verb. pr. is then generally dropped, 
so that mo stands for: o mo; e. g, yo mo la yo, „thus he 
is always doing," for: yo o mo la yo; — mo mo gbal-e, 
„while he was writing;" — kono mo der-ah, „he is coming." 
Cf. also the part, tra under T, as used to form the Future. 

2) for the Obiigative Mood in the sense of „must, was, had;" 

but mo alone often stands for q mo, „he must, he is, he 
was, he had;" as is also the case when it is used for the 
participle etc., as staled under 1. above. The form mo is 
only used for the 3d. pers. sing. — E. g. mo pa he ho I 
kone, = o mo pa he ho 1 kone, „he must not say that 
I am gone." 

3) for the Hortative Mood in the sense of „let, let him," lit. 

„let he." Also with this Mood mo is only used for the 
3d. pers. sing. — 

a) If mo is used in the sense of „let", the verb. pr. o may 

follow; but it is also often, or generally, dropped, so 
that mo stands for: mo o, „let him;" e. g. mo q pa he 
ho I kone, = mo pa he ho I kone, „let him not say 
that I am gone." 

b) If mo is used in the sense of „let him," the verb. pr. 

is of course dropped, as: mo pa he ho I kone, „let him 
not say that I am gone;" and thus the form may be 
the same with the one under a, above. 
Mo arn'olo ma-. „according to," lit. „according to the value of — ", 
= mo; e. g. I yo mo arn'olo ma ad'im-ra-mu, „I did accord- 
ing to thy word." 
Mo ho, „as, like;" also „as if;" e. g. w'uni 6 w'iini mo yo he 
ma-pant mo ho K'liru, „no man works like God;" — yo mo 
ho ma 'a mam-mu; kere tse yo o-las, „do as they bid thee; 
but do not do wrong." 
Mo ho ma, , „according as, as;" e. g. mo ho mo mo yema tra 
Mo ho me. [ pon yo, „as he will wish to have done." The 
Mo ho mo, ' use of the different forms depends on euphony; 
the first being used for the 2d. pers. sing., and for all three 



— 213 — 

pers. in the p]., the second for the 1st. pers. sing., and the 
third for the 3d. pers. sing. 

Modu, n. This word is derived from the Susn. The proper 
sense of the term is „son (of), possessor (of)," like the 
Hebr. ty2; for it is also used with common names, not only 
with proper ones, as Telma Modu, „a prater, a loquacious 
person," lit. „a son of prating." Telma is here, no doub!, 
the abstr. noun ka-telma, „ prating, loquaciousness," the prefix 
being dropped. In the Susu (and sometimes in the Temne 
also), this word is frequently joined with the name of the 
mother to form patronymics of males, or the names of sons. 
Thus Namina Modu, as used in Temne, was the proper name 
of the Alikali of the Port-Loko territory in the author's lime. 
Namina was the name of one of his father's wives. As 
polygamy is common among the Temnes, it is rather a con- 
venient mode of distinguishing the names of the various 
children of the different wives, who had one common hus- 
band. Namina Modu is therefore lit. „the son of Namina." 
The word Modu is, however, not so frequently used among 
the Temnes as among the Susus; because the Temnes may 
express the same thing also in their own way. See Pro- 
verb 5, p. 99. (Cf. also Tern. Grammar §. 37, 1. Note 2.) 

M'olo, n. „ amount, value, price;" e. g. am'olo ma ak'ota, „the 
price of the cloth;" — ak'ota ka ba m'olo ma-baki, „the cloth 
is valuable," lit. „the cloth has a high price." 

M'on, pr. poss. „his, her," lit. „of him;" e. g. ma-bone-in'on, 
„his joy." 

M'one, n. „poverty; trouble, misery, distress;" e. g. o ba m'one, 
„he is in trouble," lit. „he has trouble;" = m'one ma wop- 
ko, lit. „ trouble holds him." 

Mono, adj. „poor, miserable;" e. g. w'uni mono, ,,a miserable 
person." 

Mori, o-, pi. a-, n. „a Mohammedan, a nioii-man;" derived from 
mori, „teach, show" (as a road, and in the Mohammedan 
sense of the word „show the right way," as they pretend 
to do; for they often set themselves up as teachers). Vei 



— 214 — 

more; Mand. morolu „religious people." The Hebr. rVTto 

„teacher" presents ilself. 
Mori, adj. „belonging to a mori-man" or „to a Mohammedan;" 

e. g. w'imi mori, „a Mohammedan" or „mori-man." 
Mori, ra-, n. „the Mohammedan religion, Islamism, Mohammedan- 
ism;" e. g. o won' da-mori, „he embraced Islamism," = o 

won ka ra-mori, lit. „he entered Islamism." 
Morka, a-, pi. e-, n. „whi'e ant, termite;" Lat. termes fatale; 

e. g. e-morka e-lal, „many termites." 
Mot, » v. aux. „be first; be before, anticipate." As an anx. it 
Mo' a. > serves to express the adverbs „first, before;" e. g. kono 

mot bek, „he arrived first;" — mot nan ko royah, „go ye 

first yonder;" — der ronri I mota di, „come to me before 

I eat;" — o mota mi won, „he entered before me." In the 

two last senses it is used transitively. 
Mota, adj. „first" ; e. g. ari-rei a-mota,- „the first day." 
Mote, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „bag, basket (to hang on one's shoulder, 

made of a kind of cane), e. g. ka-mote ka-bana, ,,a large 

bag." 
Motra, v. n. „sink, go do\ui !o the bottom, sink down, go down" 

(as a stone in the water, or the sun below the horizon); 

also „dive" (as a duck); „be drowned;" e. g. an-fatr na 

motra ro-m'antr, „the iron sank in the water;" — ar'etr ra 

motra, „the sun went down." Cf. the Lat. mergi, and the 

Gr. 6vi'(o. 
Mu, pr. obj. „thee"; e. g. o tra dif-mu, „he will kill thee." 
Mun', ])r. emph. abbr. „thou; thee;" e. g. mun' taho, „it is not 

thou." 
Mun. v. a. „drink; lap" (as a dog); e. g. o mun m'antr, „he 

drank water." 
Mun, v. n. „drink"; e. g. o mun he, „he did not drink;" — 

o mun ri, „he drank of it," lit. ,.he drank there." 
Mrino, pr. emph. „thou; thee;" e.g. mUno ma lasar an-tis, „thou 

didst spoil the knife," = „it was thou who spoiled etc." 
Munoh, pr. abs. „thou, (it is) thou; thee;" e.g. w'uni las munoh! 

„thou art a bad person!" lit. „a bad person thou!" 



— 215 — 

Mun's. v. caus. (rad. mun), „give-to drink, make-to drink," Ger. 
„tranken", = the Gr. nvti£<o; e. g. I mun's-ko. „I gave him 
to drink." Also „cool-in water" (as rt'dhot iron). 

Mut, ka-, pi. trn-, n. ,.back; outside;" e. g. ka ka-mut-k'oh, „on 
his back;" — ka-rnul ka am-poli, .,the outside of the cup;" 
— o kala ka-mut, „he returned the back," = „he returned." 
With the prep, ro-it becomes also a prep, or postp., for which 
see romut. 

Mutsi, v. a. „call, call to, bid, express" (as thanks to one, sec 
the two next words); „invite"; e. g. 1 mutsi-ko, „I called 
him." 

Mutsi m'amo, „give thanks, be thankful," lit. „call thanks." 

Mutsi w'uni m'amo, „give thanks to one, be thankful to one;" 
also „congratulate one;" as: I mutsi-mu m'amo, „l thank 
thee;" — o mutsi-ko m'amo traka o-komra, „he congratulated 

him on the birth of a child," lit. „ on account of 

the woman in child-bed." 

Mutsi w'uni seke, „sympa!hize with one, express one's sympathy 
to one;" e. g. 1 mutsi-ko seke, „1 sympathized with him." 
Lit. „I called pity to him." 

Mutsi w'rini sen'-6, „bid one welcome, welcome one;" e. g. o 
mutsi-mi sen'-6, „he bid me welcome." Lit. „he called wel- 
come to me." 

N. 

N', pref. indef. and insep. „a, an;" e. g. n'antr, „a fire," for: 
na-anlr. 

'N-, abbr. of an-. See an ex. under sya. 
-'N, suff abbr. form of -ah. See the suff. -ah under A. 

N'-, pref. indef. and insep. „a, an;" e. g. n'antr, „a tree," for: 
na-anlr. 

-N, a euph. letter added to some Adverbs and Pronouns termi- 
nating in a vowel, as ton, „now, for: to; yah, „thus", for: 
ya; konoh, „he", for: kono; etc. This letter corresponds 
with the Gr. v scpeXxvcfrixov.' These forms are always used 
at the end of a proposition, though not exclusively; but the 



— 21G — 

short forms are never used at the end. See more about 

this in the Grammar. 
Na-, pref. indef. „a, an," but generally used for the pi. ; e.g. n'antr 

na-bana, „a large fire;" — na-beha na-boli, „long ropes." 
Na, pr. subj. „it, they;" e, g. an'antr na dimse, „the fire is 

gone out." 
Na, o-, pi. tra-, n. „ox"; also „cow"; e. g. o-na o-bana, „a large 

cow." 
Na, part. = nan, which see. 
Na-, pref. indef. „a. an" (sing, and pi.); e. g. a-fam ha-rah, „two 

persons;" — ha-set, = a-set, „a house." 
Na, pr. subj. „it; they;" e.g. a-bil ha yi he ri, „there is no 

canoe there," lit. „a canoe it is not there;" — ah-fam ha 

kone, „the people have left." 
Na, pr. obj. „it; them" (also used for nouns in ma-); e. g. o 

bal-ha, „he drove them away;" — am'antr loh-ha, „as for 

the water pour it out." 
Na, prep. poss. „of"; e. g. an-set ha Sori, „Sori's house," lit. 

„the house of Sori." 
Na, o-, ph a-, n. „companion, man, one of a company;" e. g. 

o-ha-mu, „thy companion," lit. ,.one of thee (thine)," = 

Q-nah, which see below. 
Na, pr. emph. ,,thev; them;" but oflen used for the sing. „he" 

when joined with other emph. pronouns, or with proper 

names, implying the copula „and"; e.g. na Pa Kamu-e, „he 

and the Iguana." 
Na, pr. subj. „ye, you;" e. g. na difa-mi o-na, „ye did kill me 

the cow," = „ye killed me the cow." 
Na-lsi, pr. dem. log. „thal, those;" e. g. ah-fam ha-tsi, „those 

persons" (spoken of before). 
Na-tsi, pr. poss. neut. „ its, their," lit. „of it; e.g. an-fon-na-tsi, 

„its hair," lit. „the hair (hairs) of it." 
Nabi. o-, pi. a-, n. „prophet". From the Ar. "^j, propheta. 

Nafas, v caus. (rad. nafa), „make to thrive, make to be well off; 
execute" or „carry out luckily; make prosperous, help for- 



— 217 — 

ward; be of use to-;" e. g. o nafas ka-tsim, „he carried on 
the war luckily;" — o nafas atr'ei atse, „he carried this thing 
out luckily;" — ar'a are ra nafas-mi, „1his thing helps me 
forward" or „is of advantage to me." 

Naibi, v. a. „reveal, make known" (as a secret); „prove, make 
clear" (as one's guilt); e. g. naibi ka-keia-k'ori, „prove his 
theft." 

Nak, a-, pi. e-, n. „rice boiled" or „cooked"; e. g. e-nak e-boti- 
di, „ delicious rice." 

Nak-nak, ka-, n. verb. „act of gnashing" or „of striking together" 
(as the teeth); „act of making a chattering noise with- (the 
teeth). See the next word." 

Nak-nak e-sek, ka-, n. „act of gnashing the teeth;" e, g. ka- 
riak-riak-k'on e-sek, „his guashing of teeth." 

Nakat, adj. „fried" (as meat in a pot); e. g. o-sem o-nakat, 
„fried beef," = u-sem u-nakat. 

Nal, v. a. „abuse, use abusive language against; challenge;" e.g. 
o nal-mi, „he abused me." 

Nam, v. a. „see"; it is a euph. form of nank, used before b, f, 
m and p; e. g. mo o nam-mi etc., „when he saw me etc." 

Nam'ra, v. rel. and inch. „get satisfied" or „saliated with food;" 
e. g. o-na o nam'ra he, „the cow does not get satisfied." 
Probably from an obs nam. 

Nan', v. a. euph. form of nank, used before g and k; e. g. „I 
naft'-kg ro-petr, „I saw him in town." 

Nan, part, and adv. = na, used to express the Conjunctive, and 
a recently past time, or the Imperfect tense, in which latter 
case it may be given by the adverbs „to day, before" or 
„already", or by the aux. verb „did"; c. g. be sya yi nan-e, 
na bap-mi ka ro-k'or ka o-na, „if it had been I, ye would 
have met me in the inside of the cow;" — I pon gbal nan, 
= I pon' na gbal, „I have written to day;" — 1 kanr-mu 
nan ho: tse ko, „I told thee before: do not go." — 1 yo-tsi 
nan, „I did it already;" — kali aii-sof, owo I wal nan, „see 
the horse, which I bought to day;" — na-der na ro-i? „did 
they come yonder?" The form nan is used more absolutely 



— 218 — 

than na; but the latter is often connected with, or prefixed 
to nouns indicating time, to make that time more definite, 
when it may be given by „last" or In „this", according to 
the nature of the noun, with which it is used; e. g. o der 
na ra-yan, „he came to day at noon;" — na tratrak, „last 
night;" — na-bat, „this morning." This particle or adv. is 
always used of a recently past time, or of events having 
taken place the same day they are spoken of. Cf. also the 
longer forms nana and nanan below. 

Nan, pr. subj. „ye", a euph. and stronger form of na, generally 
used behind the verb with the Imperative; e. g. dif-ko nan, 
„kill ye him;" — der nan and, „come ye here." 

Nan, v. a „bite"; e. g. an-tran o nan-mi. „the dog bit me." 

Nan, = anan, pr. dem rem. ,,'ha!. those;-' used if it is the sub- 
ject of a proposition without the noun; e. g. a-gbata nan, 
„that is a mat," lit. „a mat that;" but: an-gbata anan, „that 
mat." 

Nan, pr. obj. „them", generally used for to express the poss. 
pr. of the 3d. pers, pi. in connection with the poss. prep., 
as: am'aro-ma-nah, „their palm-oil," lit. „the palm-oil of them." 

Nan, pr. abs. „they; them;" e. g. nan na yo-tsi, „they did it," 
= „it is they who did it." 

Nan, o, pi. a-, n. = o-ha, „one of one's family" or „kindred" 
or „household, companion, one of one's company;" e. g. o- 
nari konon, „this (he) is one of their company," lit. „one 
of their company he;" — owo ka a-riah, „he who is of their 
company;" — kali o-han, „look one of their company." The 
form o-rian is used more absolutely than o-na, which latter 
form is used with poss. pronouns. 

Nana, i adv. „to day." They are stronger forms than na and 

Nanan, ' nan, and as to the form nanan it may be used quite 
absolutely; while nana may be used with nouns indicating 
time like na, to make this time more definite, as: nana bat, 
„this morning;" — o-der nana ra-yan, „he came to day at 
noon;" — o der nanan, „he came to day;" — a-lo reke 
ma der-e? Nanan, or: 1 der nanan; „what time didst thou 



— 219 — 

come?" „To day," or „I came to day;" nana ra-foT, 
„last evening;" — na fer a-bitin nana gbes, „they beat drum 
all last night." Also these forms like na and nan are always 
used of a recently past time. Cf. na and nan above. 

Nane, v. n. „think, suppose;" e. g. tro ma nane-e? „how" or 
„what doest thou think?" — 1 nane ho Sori konoh, „I think 
it is Sori," lit. „I think that Sori he." 

Nane, v. a. „think of, remember, consider, account;" e.g. I nane- 
tsi, „I remember it;" — I nane-ko ho w'uni lino, „I account 
him as a good person; — tra sa nane-tsi loko 6 loko, „let 
us always remember it." 

Nane, a-, or i-. pi. e-, or ma-, n. „thought; meaning, sense;" 
e.g. K'uru y trara e-nane-'e-su, „God knows our thoughts." 
Cf. the pref. i- under I above. 

Nank, v. n. „see"; fig. „understand;" e.g. ma nank-i ? „doest 
thou understand?" or „ doest thou see?" 

Nank, v. a. „see, find; look upon, account;" e.g. sa gbali he 
nank K'uru, kere K'liru o gbali nank tr'el 6 tr'el atra sa yo, 
„we cannot see God, but God can see every thing which 
we do." Fig. ,.perceive, understand." 

Nanka, v. rel. „look with-on-." See the next word. 

Nanka w'uni i-nel, ,.look with pity" or „ compassion on one;" 
e. g. o nahka-mi i-nel, „he looks with pity on me." 

Nahkane, v. recipr. „see each other face to face, meet each 
other face to face;" hence also „hold a council, consult to- 
gether;" e.g. ha nahkane tenon, „1hey held a council to day." 

N'ahle, i , 

_•„, , \ adi. num. „four"; e.g. a-fam nanle, „four persons." 

Nanle, ) 

Nant, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „mucus of the nose, snot, snivel." 

Nant, v. a. „remove, carry away;" e. g. nant ey'etr-'e-mi. „carry 

my things away;" — sa nant ey'etr eye a-lo h'in, „we carry 

these things away at one time." 
N'antr, n. „fire"; def. an'antr, „the fire," = „hell"; e. g. an'anlr 

na mara par-par, „the fire burns briskly," — an'anlr na yo 

he ko o-bah. „lhe fire did not hurt him." 



— 220 — 

N'antr, pi. v'infr, n „tree"; e. g. n'antr a-bana, „a large tree;" 

— y'intr e-lai, „many trees." 
Nantra, v. a. „marry" (of the male); e. g. o-lahba o nantra ow'an 

bera ka Pa Sori, „the man married the daughter of Mr. Sori." 
N'anfrar, pi. m'antrar, n. „tear"; e. g. m'antrar ma gbaro-ko, 

„he sheds tears," lit. ,.tears flow down from him," or more 

fully: m'antrar ma gbaro-ko e-for, lit. „tears flow down from 

his eves;" or: am'antrar ma gbaro, „the tears flow;" or: 

o-for-y'oii e gbaro m'antrar, lit. „his eyes flow with tears," 

= „he sheds tears." The sing, is hardly ever used. 
Nap, v. a. „knock, strike, beat; knock-with-;" ah-fam ria yema 

ko nap, „the people wanted to beat him;" — o nap-kg i-sar, 

„he knocked him with a stone." 
Nap, v. a. „condemn, find guilty, convince one of his guilt;" 

e. g. 'a nap-ko traka ra-kel, „they condemned him for theft." 
Nasi, v. a. „wipe off, wipe out, blot out" (as the writing on a 

slate); e. g. K'uru, nasi ama-trel-ma-mi ma-las! ,.0 God, 

blot out my sins!" 
Nasia, v. rel. „wipe off-for-; wipe off-with-; e. g. nasia-mi ama- 

gbal, „wipe out the letters forme;" — nasia ama-gbal k'ota, 

„wipe off the letters with a cloth." 
Natr, v. n. ascend, go up. rise, rise up;" also „go up the coun- 
try;" e. g. ak'iina ka natr, „the smoke rises up;" — o natr 

ro-gban, or also simply: o natr, „he went up the country." 
Natr, v. a. „go up at-, go up along- or on-; ascend" (as a tree); 

e. g. o natr aka-bat, „he went up at the brook." 
Natra, v. caus. „make-to rise up, raise, make to ascend, take up, 

lift up" (as an oar); e. g. natra ka-tra-ka-mu, „lift up thy 

hand." 
Ne, pr. dem. prox. „this, these," for: ahe. This form is used 

for the comp. dem. pr., as nfa-iie, „1his", lit. „it this;" e.g. 

an-gbata-n'on nia-ne, „this is his mat," lit. „his mat it this." 
Ne, contr. form for: na yi, as: ko ne-e? „what is the matter?" 

lit. „whnt is it?" 
Net, i-, n. „pity, compassion, mercy;" also „pitiable state"; e.g. 

o ba-ko i-nel, „he had pity on him." 



— 221 — 

NeT, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „country yarn, common yam" (very 

white); e. g. ma-nel ma-lai, „many yams." 
N'el, n. „sun" (as the source of heat); e. g. anei na bah tenon. 

„the sun i« hot to day;-' as the source of light the sun is 

called ar'etr which see. 
N'emi, n. „kind of hammock said to have been sent by God." 

See Tradit. p. 32. 
Nemlene, prob. a refl. form of an obs. nemte, „ beseech, beg, 

inlreat, implore, beg for pardon, beg pardon from;" e. g. 

o nemtene-mi. „he begged my pardon." 
Nepal, a-, pi. e-, n. „!he long grass used for thatching;" e. g. 

e-nepal e-flno, ,.fine grass." 
Nepal, adj. „made of grass, thatched with grass;" e. g. a-set 

a-nepal, „a grass-house," or „a house thatched with grass." 
Nes, ra-, n. ,,1'ear, dread;" e. g. ra-nes-r'oh, „his dread." 
Nes, a-, pi. e-, n. „spider"; e.g. a-nes a-bana, „ a large spider." 
N'es, pi. m'es, n. „name"; also „character; fame;" e. g. am'es- 

raa-hah mi'a-me, „these are their names," lit. „their nanus 

they these." 
Nesa, v. n. „fear, be afraid;" e. g. q nesa, „he is afraid;" — 

tse nesa, „do not be afraid." 
Nesa, v. a. „fear, dread, be afraid of-; respect, honour;" e. g. 

o nesa-mu, „he is afraid of thee." 
Nesam, a-, pi. e-, n. „breath, life, animal life," =fjipvx / t]; e.g. 

o ba he so a-nescim, „he is dead," lit. „he has no life again." 
Nesam, adj. „living, alive;" e.g. r*a ra-hesam, „a living creature." 
Ni, pr. obj. „it; them;" e.g. ana-beha, kara-ni, „as to the ropes, 

bring them." 
Ni, a-, pi. e-, n. „portion, share; e. g. Kara ah-ni-'a-mi, „bring 

my share." 
Ni, a-, pi. e-; or a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „sole of the foot, foot; 

footstep;" e. g. kot ka 'ma-ni-ma-mi, „vvalk in my footsteps." 
Ni, pr. obj. „it; them;" e. g. ah-gbata, o tila-hi, „as to the mat, 

he sold it." 
Nia, pr. emph. „it, this; they, them, these;" e.g. an-tis, hia 



— 222 — 

yi-tsi, „this is the knife," lit. „the knife it is it," or „ as for 

the knife, this is it." 
Nia-iie, pr. dem. comp. „this, these," lit. „it (is) this, they (are) 

these;" e. g an-set-'a-mi, nia-ne, „this is my house," lit, 

„my house it (is) this." 
Nia yi, j „namely, that is, that is to say," lit „it is-;" 
Nia yi ho, ' e. g. 1 ko ban an-reka-'a-mi, nia yi ho am-beibal, 

„I go to fetch my book, that is the Bible." 
N'imisa, n. ,, trouble of any kind, distress;" e. g. o won n'imisa. 

„he got into trouble." 
Nin, e-, n. „dung, excrements" (of men and beasts; that of in- 
fants they call e-sdro); e. g. e-nin ya tra-na, „cow-dung." 
N'in, adj. num. ,,one"; e. g. a-set n'in, „one house." 
Nina, \ adv. „to morrow;" the longer form may be used abso- 
Ninan, ' lately ; and the shorter may be joined with nouns of 

lime, to make this time more definite; e. g. I tsi yo-tsi 

ninan, „I shall do it to morrow;" — o tra kal so nina ra- 

foi, „he will return again to morrow evening;" — nina bat, 

.,to morrow morning;" — nina tratrak, „to morrow night." 

Cf. also anina, and aninari, under A. 
Ninis, o-, n. „ terror; fierceness; awfulness, frightfulness;" e. g. 

o-ninis o wop-ko, ,.he feels terrified," lit. ,, terror holds him" 

or „took hold of him." 
Ninis, adj. „terrible; fierce; awful, frightful;" e.g. o-sem o-ninis, 

„a fierce animal;" — r'a ra-ninis, „a terrible thing." 
No, adv. „here, hither;" e. g. g yira no, „he lives here." Cf. 

also and under A. 
No, prep. „here in, here at, here to;" the adv. „here" is 

implied; e. g. o yi no-petr, „he is here in this town." Cf. 

and, prep, under A. 
N'of, pi. y'of, n. ,,moon; month; e.g. y'of e-sas, „three months." 
Not, v. a. ,,take, take away-from-, dismiss-from, take away;" 

„tse no! ey'etr-'e-mi, ,,do not take away my things;" — 'a 

nol-ko a-kala, ,,they took money away from him." 
Noh, pr. dem. rem for: nan, used with lo, ,,time"; see: lo non 

under L. 



— 223 — 

N'on, pr. poss. „iiis, her," lit. „of him, of her," being a con- 
traction of ha ko, with the euph. h affixed; e. g. an-trar- 
n'on, „his slaves;" — ah-set-noh, „his house." 

Nosi-nel, o-, n. „pitiab!e condition;" also ,,pity, compassion;" 
e. g. o-nosi-nel o wop-ko, ,,he is in a pitiable condition," 
lit. ,.a p. c. holds him;" — K'uru o nahka-su o-nosi-nei, 
„God looked with pity on us." 

Nu, pr. obj. ,,you"; e. g. sa tra bap-nu ro-petr, „we shall meet 
you in town." 

N'ump, pi. m'ump, n. „fable, tale, story;" e. g. man tram mump, 
„let us t ell stories." 

N'umpal, pi. m'limpal, sometimes also y'umpal, n. ,. shadow of a 
person" (when standing in the sun); ,.shade, soul" or „spirit 
(of man)," = the Lat. umbra. It is also used of the spirit 
of God. The animal life is called a-hesam, which see. Cf. 
Pref. § 12, b. where more particulars will be found about 
n'umpal. 

Nya, pr. emph. „ye; you;" but also used for the sing. „thou" 
when joined with other emph. pronouns, or with proper 
names, implying the copula „and"; e. g. nya yo atr'ei atse, 
„ye did this thing," — nya kane der tra dif o-,sem-e? „thou 
and who came to kill the beast?" 

Nyah, pr. abs. „ye; you;" e.g. nyan, nya lasar am-bil ahe, „ye, 
ye spoiled this canoe." 

o. 

0-, pref. def. and indef. „a, an; the;" e.g. o-bal, „the king" 
or „a king." 

0-, pref. emph. vow. to make nouns with the inseparable pref. 
w', and one with d' definite; as: ow'iini, „the person," from 
w'uni, r .a person;" — ow'an, „the child," from w'an, „child"; 
etc.; od'er, ,.the place," from d'er, „a place." 

0! int. „oh! o!" denoting wonder, surprise, also grief and com- 
passion. E g. o, o-poto! „0h, a while man!" -- o Pa, 1 
trara atra I pa! „oh Sir, I know what 1 say!" 

()! int. or expl. pari. It is placed at the end of saluting or 



— 224 — 

of exclamatory propositions, when like -e it serves to indi- 
cate the Vocative. It is always used with such words, which 
are addressed directly lo another. If it has any sense with 
such propositions, it is that of „now" or of the Ger. „doch". 
Also the Liberated Africans at Sierra-Leone are fond of af- 
fixing the vowel sound o at the end of a proposition, or of a 
word, especially when calling to another; they may often be 
heard to say — „come-o!" = „come now!" or „come then!" 
E. g. sen'-o, Pa! „welcome, Sir!" See more ex. in the 
Colloq. Phras. p. 106 —110. Cf. also the Grammar about this 
particle. 

0, pr. subj. „he, she;" e. g. o n" dis, „he died yesterday." 

0, pr. impers. or irrel. „it"; e. g. o lompi, „it is right." 

0, for: o pa; or: o pa ho, „he said." See Tradit. p. 68. 

0, conj. or copulative part. „and"; when it is used to join 
several nouns or names, then the 6 behind the last is to 
be given by „also", or it may be left untranslated; and when 
it occurs twice, or behind two nouns, it may be given by" 
— as well as — ", or by „both — , and — ." E. g. d'er- 
6-d'er, „ every place," lit. „ place and place;" — Basi 6 
Sori 6, „Basi as well as Sori;" — k'ota 6, e-;v6ka 6, a- 
taba 6, „cloth and cassadas and tobacco also." 

-'O-mi, pr. poss. „my", lit. „of me;" e.g. od'er-'o-mi, „my 
place;" — o-sem-'o-mi, „my meat." 

'O-mu, pr. poss. „thy", lit. „of thee;" e.g. o-sem-'o-mu, „thy 
meat." 

'0, prep. poss. „of" for: wo. See the two preceding words. 

O gbo! „oh dear! what is that! oh strange!" e. g. o gbo, i-sar 
ha loko k'ek-e! „oh strange, a stone brought forth a beard!" 

Owe, pr. dem. prox. „this"; e. g. o-trar owe, ..this slave." 

Owo, pr. rel. „who, he who; which;" e. g. o-bal owd fi, „the 
king who died." 

Owoh, pr. dem. rem. „that, that one;" e. g. o-lahba owoh, „ thai 
young man." 



— 225 

P. 

P', pref. indef. and insep pi.; e g. p'in, „one"; — p'anle, „four"; 

— pa-la p'in, „one sort of rice." 
Pa, v. n. „say, speak, talk about a matler;" e. g. o pa gbo ro- 
san, „he speaks only at the mouth" (not according to what 
is in his heart); — 'a pa rokin, „they c« nverse together." 
Pa, v. a. „say; state, talk over" (as a mater); „tell; pronounce;" 
e. g. pa-tsi ronori, „tell it to him;" o pa am-pa, „he stated 
the matter." 
Pa, a-, pi. e-, or ma-, n. „saying, word; matter, palaver; state- 
ment, subject of inquiry, affair about which one speaks; 
story;" e. g. o tra pa am-pa ninah, „he will talk over the 
matter to morrow;" — mine ba 'ma-pa ma-t.si, „1 have to 
talk those matters." 
Pa, o-, pi. a-pa, or pa-na, n. „Sir, Master, Mr.;" also „father" 
(when addressing one, otherwise o-kas is used). When 
applied to irrational beings it may be given bv the del'. 
article „ihe" in English, as: Pa Nes, „the Spider," lit. „Mr. 
Spider;" — kori 'u, Pa! „I salute thee, Sir!" Cf. the word 
k'ak in this Vocab. about the form Pa-na. 
Pa-, pref. def. = apa-, „the"; e. g. pa-la, = apa-la, „the rice;" 

— pa-yaka, „the krifi rice." Cf. krifi, adj. in this Vocab. 
Pa-, pref. indef. pi. e. g. pa-la pa-fino, „good rice." 
Pa, pr. impers. or irrel. „it"; e. g. pa bone-ko, „he is glad." 
Pa, pr. sub. indef. „it"; e.g. pa-la pa bak lemp, „rice grows 

fast." 
Pa, pr. subj.def. „it"; e.g. apa-la pa lasa. „the rice got spoiled." 
Pa-mi, pr. poss. def. „m)". lit. „of me.;" e. g. pa-la-pa-mi, „my 

rice." 
Pa-mi, pr. poss. indef. „my", lit „of me;" e. g. pa-la-pa-mi, 

„rice of mine," = „my rice." 
Pal, v. n. ,.jump, leap;" e.g. o pal ro tof, ,.he jumped down 
on the ground;" — o pal ka ka-bat. „he leaped over the 
brook." 
Pal, v. n. „be ready" (as for a journey); e. g. ma paT-i? „arl 

Temne - Worterbuch. ' 3 



226 — 

thou ready?" — i pal, man kdne, „I am ready, let us go;" 

— I ta pal he, „I am not yet ready." 

Pal, adv. spec. „very, quite, up to the brim; altogether," used 
with la, „be full, be numerous;" with lasar, „fill, make full;" 
and with k3si, „refuse, will not." E. g. atr'ak ria la ri pal, 
„the ants are very numerous there;" — lasar am-poli pal, 
„fill the cup up to the brim," or „make the cup quite full;" 

— o kasi bak pai, „he will not grow at all." 

Pala, v. a. „accompany"; e.g. Sori o tra paia-mu ri, „Sori will 

accompany thee there." 
Pakasife, conj. „because"; e. g. o gbali he tsi pon yo, pakasife 

o yi he ri, „he cannot have done it, because he was not there." 
Pali, adv. „the whole day, all day;" e. g. na tomo pali, „they 

danced all day." 
Pali gbes, „all day and all night;" e. g. sa tomo pali gbes, „we 

danced all day and all night." 
Pal, v. a. „forget"; -e.g. o pal ah-16pra-iVori, „he forgot his cap." 
Paine, v. refl. a. „forget oneself, forget; e. g. o palne-tsi , „he 

forgot it." 
Pan, v. a. Jack, want, need;" e. g. o pan he raka 6 r'aka, „he 

is not in want of any thing." 
Pan, ka-, n. verb. „act of lacking (a thing); slate of being in 

want, want, distress, lack;" e. g. ka-pari-k'on, „his want." 
Peine, v. a. „carrv in" or „on the arms" (as a child, or as 

wood); „embrace, press to one's bosom." Also used as a 

compliment on meeting with one a second time the same 

day, in the sense of „meet", when the subj. pronoun is 

dropped. E. g. o pane e-tok, o kere-yi ro-set, „he took the 

wood in his arms, and carried it into the house." See also 

Colloq. Phras. p. 107 and 110. 
Pani-tr'eT, adj. comp. „harmless, innocent, being without fault;" 

e. g. w'lini pani-tr'eT, „a harmless person." 
Pank, a-, n. „ folly, foolishness;" e. g. an-pank-ri'on, „his folly." 
Pank, adj. „foolish" ; e.g. w'uni pank, „a foolish person." 
Pankal, a-, pi. e-, n. „cithern" or „harp", also called „Kroo- 

harp." It has seven grass strings, is of a triangular form, 



— 227 

and fixed iti one half of a split calabash, and is played with 
the fingers. E. g. o fer am-parikal, „he plays the harp." 

Parikal, a-, pi. e-, or tra- ; or also o-, pi. tra-, n. „a large ante- 
lope exceeding in size the common native ox." with white 
spots, and long horns, commonly called „bush-cow". The 
female has no horns. It is said to put down its horns back- 
wards when running through the bush; but when it is in a 
fury, it raises them upright for selfdefence. 

Pant, a-, or i-. pi. ma-, n. „\vork, business; e. g. ma-pant ma- 
baki. „hard work." The sing, is hardly ever used. 

Pantrie, v. n. „raise oneself, rise up" (as one stooping or kneel- 
ing down); e. g. o pantne, „he rose up." 

Pantrane, v. recipr. a. (rati, pantr), „mix" or „mingle together, 
put" or „lay together" (as people money for a common stock); 
„mix together promiscuously, confound;" e. g. 'a pantrane 
aii-kala-'a-nari, „they put their money together." 

Par-par, adv. onom. „briskly, smartly," used with mara, „flame, 
burn;" e.g. an'antr na mara par-par, „the fire burns smartly' 
or „the fire burns making par-par." 

Patr, v. n. „cook; boil; be boiled, be stewed;" e. g. I pori patr, 
man kone di, „I have cooked, let us go to eat;" — amantr 
ma patr, „the water boils." 

Patr, v. a. „cook, seethe; stew;" e. g. o patr o-sem, „he stewed 
the meat." 

Patr, adj. „cooked; boiled; stewed;" e.g. o-sem o-patr. „boiled 
beef." 

Pe, contraction of pa yi, „it is; e. g. tro pe-e?" how is it?" 
See Colloq. Phras. p. 105. 

Pensa, = pesa, v. n. answer in the negative, contradict, refuse, 
not concede, deny;" e. g. o pensa ho o trara-mi, „he dis- 
owned me," lit. „he denied that he knows me;" — tse pensa, 
w'an! „do not deny, boy!" 

Pensa, \ v. a. „deny, refuse, reject, object to; give a negative 

Pesa, ' answer to-, contradict;" e. g. o pensa-tsi, „he denied 
it;" — tse pesa-tsi, w'an! „do not deny it, boy!" — o pesa 
o-trar, „he objected to the slave" (having a fault). 

15* 



— 228 — 

P£s"kiane, v. retipr. (rad. peski), „open in various directions, 
diverge from each other" (as roads); „lie in different posi- 
tions" (as bundles); fig. „disagree, be at variance with each 
other; differ" (as words); e. g. e-pa-'e-mu e peskiane, »thy 
statements do not agree;" — as'dn Ira peskiane ri, „the roads 
diverge from each other there." 

Peskiane, adj. „diverging from each other, diverging off in various 
directions; being at variance with each other; different;" e.g. 
s'on tra-peskiane, „roads diverging from each other;" — 
s'im tra-peskiane. „words being at variance with each other. 

Petr, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „town"; e. g. ka-petr ka-bana ka yi ri, 
„there is a large town there." 

Pi, pr, obj. „it"; e. g. I wal-pi, „I bought it" (i.e. rice). 

Pta, pr. emph. „it, this;" e. g. apa-la-pa-mi, pia vi tsi, „as to 
my rice, this is it," = „ this is my rice." 

PiaV, abbr. of piara, generally used before the int. 6. See the 
next word, and cf. Colloq. Phras. p. 106—107 for examples 
with this form. 

Piara, v. n. „be all day, spend all day, be well all day, live, 
spend, be." It is often used as an aux. to express the adv. 
„all day." E. g. o piara yo ma-pant, „he did work all day;" 
— ria piara tomo, „they danced all day;" — o piara ro 
Ma-lal, „he was all day at Malal." 

Pika, v. n. „faint, swoon; gel senseless" (as by a stroke on the 
head); o pika, „he swooned away." 

Pil, ka-, n. .,the west;" e. g. o yefa ro-pil, „he came from the 
west." With the prep, ro- it becomes also a prep, or a post- 
position. 

Pilor, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „ball" (for a gun), „bullet"; e.g. 
a-piior a-bana, „a large ball." 

Pirn, v. a. „pick, pluck, pluck off" (as flowers, fruit, or ears of 
rice), hence also „reap" ; e. g. sa ko pirn ma-lemre, „we go 
to pluck lemons." 

Pima, v. inch. „break, get broken" (as rope); „tear, get torn" 
(as cloth); „get loose" (as a horse); e. g. ah-sol o pima, „the 
horse got loose;" — ak'ota ka pima, „the cloth got torn." 



— 229 — 

Pi'hkar, a-, pi. e-, n. „gun, musket;" e. g. a-pinkar a-fino, „a 
fine gun." 

P^lo, v. a. „crown"; also „crown-as-"; e.g. 'a polo o-bal, „they 
crowned the king;" - 'a polo-kg Q-bal, „they crowned him 
(as) king" 

P'^lpala, = p'olpara, n. ^gunpowder;" e. g. p'6lpala pa-lal, 
„much gunpowder." 

P'on, pr. poss. „his, her," lit. „of him, of her," being a contraction 
of: pa ko with the euph. n; e. g. apa-la-p'gn, „his rice." 

Poh, v. n. „have an end, take an end, be over; be finished, be 
done, be exhausted; be at an end; be expired, be up" (as 
a fixed time); e. g. apa-la pa poh, „the rice is exhausted;" 
— ma-pant-ma-mi ma pon, „my work is finished." 

Poh, v. a. „finish, make an end to-; go all over" (as a country); 
„exhaust" (as provisions); „wear out" (as clothes); „destroy" 
(as a town); „rout" (as an army). As an aux. verb it serves 
to express the past tense in the sense of „have", or „have 
done;" and sometimes it expresses the adverb „entirely, 
completely, altogether." E. g. Q yema poh ama-pant, „he 
wants to finish the work;" — o poh e-lopra-y'oh, „he has 
worn out his clothes;" — 'a dim aka-petr, „they destroyed 
the town;" — o poh gbal, „he has written;" — o poh di 
am-bamp, „he ale the bird altogether," or: o poh ko di, „he 
ate it altogether." 

Poh, v. impers. „be enough, suffice; be done;" e. g. pa poh, 
„it is" or ,,will be enough." 

Pon', euph. form of pon, „finish", used before d, n and t; as 
o pon' na gbal, „he has written to day." 

P6ha, v. rel. „finish-for-, destroy-to-, destroy-for-;" e. g. 'a poha- 
ko ah-fam-h'oh, ,.they drstroved him (all) his people " 

Poh's, v. freq. a. (for ponas), „finish, complete, accomplish; fulfil" 
(as a promise); „exhaust, spend" (as money); e.g. 1 tsi poh's 
ama-pant-ma-mi tenon, „1 shall finish my work to day;" — 
o poh's ar'im ara o Iran, „he fulfilled his promise," lit. „he 
accomplished the word which he pledged (said)." 
Poro, am-, n. „the Poro association." See Pref. § 18. a. 



— 230 — 

Poro, a-, pi. e-, n. „porro greegree." See Pref. § 18. b. 

Poru, a-, pi. e-, n. ,, sperm, seed" (for generation) ; also „foetus, 
embryo" (as the result of sexual commerce). Both sexes, they 
say, have such a poru, and if one has no child, or if a 
woman does not bear children, they say: o ba he a-poru, 
„she (he) has no seed," = she is barren;" — am-poru- 
h'ori na lasa, „she had an abbortion," lit. „her embryo got 
spoiled." 

Pdti, a-, pi. e-, n. „cup, drinking vessel" (with a handle); e. g. 
kara a-poti, ,, bring a cup." 

Poto, o-, pi. a-, n. „a white man, a European;" e. g. o-poto o yi 
he ka ka-petr ak£, „there is no white man in this town." 

Poto, adj. „european, belonging to a white man" or „to the 
white man's country;" e. g. a-bil a-poto, ,,a ship." lit. „a 
european canoe." 

Pure, a-, pi. e-, n. „lover, sweetheart, concubine" (used of both 
sexes); e. g. o ba a-pure, ,.he has a concubine," or also „she 
has a lover." 

Putr, v. n. „rise" (as the sun, or moon above the horizon); e.g. 
ah'of na putr, .,lhe moon rises." 

Putr. v. a. „burst, open (as the leaves which enclose the ear of 
rice);" pierce, lance" (as a boil); „make known, divulge" (as 
the death of one), e. g putr am-boya, „open the boil;" — 
'a putr ara-fi, „they made known the death" (as by drum- 
ming). Also „bruise" (as a reed); „clean" (as fish by taking 
out the intestines and scraping otf the scales). 

Putu, a-, pi. e-, n. ,. reel urn", Ger. ..Mastdarm"; also „tripe". 

R. 

R', pref. indef. and insep. „a . an;" e g. r'of, „a cerastes", for 

ra-of. 
Ra, pref. indef. ,,a, an;" e. g. ra-bena, ,,a rope." 
Ra, pr. subj. „it"; e. g. ara-beha ra boli, „the rope is long." 
Ra, pr. poss. „of"; e. g. ra-bena ra Sori, „Sori's rope," lit. 

,,a rope of Sori." 
R'a, = r'aka, which see. 



— 231 — 

Ra, prep, indef. „to, in, from, at." It is an indef. form of ra 

and ro. E. g. o yefa ra-petr, „he came from a town;" ra 

ka-petr, „in a town." 
Ra-mi, pr. poss. „my", lit. „of me;" e. g. ara-beha-ra-mi, „my 

rope." 
Ra-nan, pr. poss. „their", lit. „of them;" e. g. ara-beiia-ra-nan, 

„their rope." 
R'a ra-boti-som, „something delicious to devour" or „to eat;" 

e. g. I tsi sgm r'a ra-boti-som, „1 shall eat something deli- 
cious to devour." 
R'a ra-di, pi. y'etr e-di, „something to eat, food, victual;" e.g. 

o son-mi r'a ra-di, „he gave me something to eat." 
Ra-tr'el 6 tr'el, „from every harm." See: bene w'Qni ra-tr'el 

6 tr'el under B. 
Rabu, o-, n. „Lord". Adopted from the Ar. ^J, dominus. It 

is used of God only. E. g. o-Rabu-ka-su, „our Lord." 
Raf, v. a. ..establish, make, enact" (as a law); ..fix" (as a spear 

in the ground); also „ stab-wit h-;" e. g. o-bal o raf a-ton, 

„the king made a law;" — o raf an-sor ro-tgf, „he fixed 

the spear in the ground;" — o raf-ko a-lis, „he stabbed him 

with a knife," = o rafa-ko a-tis. 
Rafa, v. rel. „fix" or „put-for-; stab-with;" e. g. rafa-mi an-sor 

ro-tof, „fix the spear in the ground for me." See also the 

next word. 
Rafa w'uni a-balma, „stab one with a dagger;" e. g. o rafa-mi 

a-balma, „he stabbed me with etc." 
R'afa, pi. s'afa, n. „army of war-people, army;" e. g. r'afa ra- 

bana, „a large army." 
Rafar, v. rel. „fix" or „put-for-, put up-against-" (as the porro 

greegree against one). See Pref. § 18. b. 
Rak-rak, v. n. „shake, be loose" (as a tooth, or a blade in a 

handle); fig. „be of a delicate health" or „ constitution"; e.g. 

e-sek-y'on e rak-rak, „his teeth are loose." 
R'aka, = r'a, pi. y'etr, n. „somelhing, a thing, an article, a vessel; 

tool, instrument," pi. also „fumiture"; e. g. I ba he r'aka 

tra som-mu, 1 have nothing to give thee." 



— 232 

Raka, a-, pi, e-, n. „camp, place enclosed with a war-fence;" 

e. g. o yi ro-r^ka, „he is in the camp." 
R'aka-6-r'aka, „every thing, any thing;" with a negative „not 

any thing, notling at all;" e. g. o ba he r'aka-6-r'dka, „he 

has nothing at all." 
Ram, v. n. „pay, pay a fine;" e. g. o ba tra ram, „he has to 

pay a fine." 
Ram, v. a. „pay, pay for, reward; requite;" e.g. I gbgli he 

soto ak'ota, l£mbo I ram-ki, „1 cannot get the cloth, except 

I pay for it." 
Ram, a-, pi. e-, n. „pay, reward, recompence, wages, premium;" 

e. g o soto an-ram-n'on, „he got his pay." 
Ram tr'el ka 'ra-bomp ra w'uni, „ visit a thing upon one" (in 

scriptural language); „recompense" (in the way of punishing); 

lit. „pay (requite) a thing upon the head of a person," = 

„send evil upon one judicially." 
Ramara, v. doubl. rel. (rad. ram), „heaI-for-, cure-for-;" also: 

„cure-with-;" e. g. ramara-mi ow'ahet, „cure me the child," 

or „cure the child for me." 
Ramne, v. refl. n. „pray"; e. g. o ko ramne, „he goes to pray," 

lit. „pay oneself off," then probably „perform one's duty" 

(as towards God, or towards a krifi), being derived from ram, 

»pay". 

Ramne, v. refl. a. „pray to, worship; pray, beg, beseech;" lit. 

probably „pay one's duty towards" or ,,to-". It is used of 

the worship of God and of krifis. E. g. sa ba tra ramne 

K'uru, ,,we must pray to God;" o ramne o-krifi, „he 

worships a krifi." Cf. the preceding word. 
Ramne, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „prayer, worship;" e.g. ka-ranme-ka-su, 

,,our prayer." 
Ramne a-krifi, ka-, n. ,, krifi worship," lit. „a worshipping krifis." 
Rami, v. n. long form of ram, ,, sound, tinkle;" fig. „be famous, 

be renowned;" e. g. am-bitih na rami o-fino, ,,the drum 

sounds well." See the next word. 
Rami o-boli-tral, ,, sound sweetly, sound pleasant to the ear" (as 

a song). See len, a-, „song". 



— 233 — 

Ran, pr. dem. rem. = aran, „that", used when it is the subject 
of a proposition without the noun; e. g. ra-bena ra-fino ran, 
,,that is a good rope," lit. ,.a good rope that." 

Ran, adj. num. „two"; e. g. a-fam na-ran, „two persons." 

Rana, v. a. „carry on the back;" e. g. o rana ow'ahet, „he car- 
ried the child on the back." 

R&ni, o-, pi. a-, n. „wife"; e. g. o-r^ni-ka-mi, „my wife." 

Rank, a-, pi. e-, or tra-; or also o-, pi. tra-, n. .,an elephant"; 
e. g. a-rank a-bana, „a large elephant." 

Rap, v. a. „surround, go round, go around; e. g. na rap ari- 
kurik, „they surrounded the yard." 

Rap, ka-, n. adultery, fornication" (used of both sexes); e.g. 
ka-rap-k'on, „his adultery;" — a-fam 'a ka-rap, „adu!lerous 
people," lit. „people of adultery." 

Raran, ka-, n. „backpart, backside, hinder part" (of a thing); 
fig. „support, backing;" e. g. ka-niran ka ah-set, „the back 
part of the house;" — o-bal o ba ka-raran ka-bana, „the 
king has great support." With the prep, ro- it becomes a 
prep, or a postp. , for which see roriran. 

Raran, postp. „behind"; e.g. o yi-mi raran, „he is behind me;" 
= roraran. 

Raran-ka-t,si, ka-, see: ka-rSrah-ka-tsi, and: ka ka-raran-ka-tsi. 

o ' 7 o O 

Rare, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „door; shutter;" e.g. kanta ka-rare, „shut 
the door." 

Ras, adv. „yet, still, first;" e. g. kar-mi ras, „wait me first;" — 
o fet ras, „he is si ill young." 

Rasa, a-, pi. e-, n. „a creeping plant (bearing a kind of tomata 
or love-apple), which winds itself round trees very thickly." 
The natives chew the inner white skin of the plant, after 
the outer green one is taken off, and swallow the juice of 
it. The fruit is eaten by animals, sometimes also by men. 
They also call this plant k'ororo. pi. tr'ororo 

Rata, postp. „under, below, beneath," = rorata; e. g. o-wontr- 
ka-mu o yi ro-funk rata, „thy brother is under the store- 
house." 

Ratron, prep, and postp. „belween, in the midst, amongst;" e.g. 



— 234 — 

tas-na ratrdh, „he passed between them;" — yira-su ra- 
trdn, „sit between us;" — o wur ratrdh ka aii-fam, „he 
came out from amongst the people." There is a euph. form 
datrdh, which see. 

Ratrdn, adv. „between, in the midst;" e. g. o tas ratrdh, „he 
passed between;" — fof ar'im o-bakar ratrdh, „accentuate 
the word in the middle," lit. „pronounce the word strongly 
in the middle." 

Rayer, prep, or postp. „near to, close to, beside, near, at the 
side;" e. g. o tas-mi raver, „he passed near to me;" — o 
trama-mi rayer, = o trama rayer-ka-mi, „he stands close to 
me;" — tse yira ra\er ka am-mesa, „do not sit near the table." 
There is a euph. form dayer, which see. 

Rayer, adv. „aside; near;" e. g. o trama rayer, „he stood near;" 
— botr-yi rayer, „put them aside." 

Re — ? adv. inter. „whereto?" e.g. re man ko-e? „where art 
thou going to?" 

Re, ma-, n. „sleep"; e. g. ma-re ma ba-mi, „I am sleepy," lit. 
„sleep has me." Also „vision"; e.g. o nahk ma-re, „he 
saw a vision." 

Re, = de, or = der, v. n. and aux. „come"; de is a euph. form 
of re. When used as an aux. it may sometimes be given 
by „go" and by „happen"; it is also used to express a re- 
mote Future in connection with the particles tsi, or tra, or 
with ma, me and mo; sometimes also without them, if 
used for a Future in the Passive. Otherwise it indicates a 
purpose 01 intention to exercise the energy, expressed by 
the principal verb. It is construed with the short, and also 
with the long form of the Infinite. E. g. o re he nan, „he 
did not come," = o de he nan; — o tra re dif-ko, „he 
will kill him by and by;" — ya ha ma re yo-mu, „thus they 
will be doing to thee;" — ak'antr ka re gbutras, or also: 
ak'antr ka tra re gbutras, „the stick will be shortened by 
and by;" — o re tila, „he comes to trade;" — o re gbal, „he 
(came) comes to write", or: o re tra gbal, „he comes (came) 



— 235 — 

for the purpose to write." When used for the Future it is 
best given by „bv and by." 

Re, adv. „here"; e. g. o ylra re, „he lives here." 

Re, conj. „and", = de, which is a euph. form. E. g. million 
re mlnan sa kdne, „thou and I we will go;" — o-kas re 
o-ka>a-k'oh, „his father and his mother." 

Re, prep. = de, which is a euph. form of it, „with, by;" e. g. 
pa yi he re ah-fdsa ha konoh, „it was not by the power 
of him," = „it was not by his power;" — o di re mlnah, 
„he ate with me." 

Re'i, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „a day of 24 hours, a day," e. g. ah- 
rei ahe, ,, t his day;" — ma-rei ma-sas, „three days." 

Reka, a-, pi. e-, n. „skin, hide; parchment, paper; letter, book;" 
e. g. ah-rfika ha ka-lome, „the skin of the sheep;" — 
som'ra-mi a-reka, „he sent me a letter." The Mohammedans 
often use dressed skins to write upon; now thej write also 
on paper. 

Reke? adv. inter. „where?" e.g. reke am-bil-'a-mi-e? „where is 
my canoe?" 

Reke? pr inter. „whieh? what?" e. g. a-loko reke ma der-e? = 
a-lo reke ma der-e? „what time didst thou come?" — ka- 
petr ka-reke? „which town?" — w'rini reke? „what person?" 

Ren, or ren', ka-, pi. tra-, n. ,.a year"; e. g. k;t-reh k'in, „one 
year;" — tra-ren' tra-sas, „three years." The g is some- 
times cut off before d and t. 

Ren', i v. a. „put on the top of-, load-wilh-, put; e.g. o reh- 

Reh, ' ko ka-tra, „he put the hand upon him;" — o reh-ko 
ka ah-sol, „he put him on the horse;" — o ren' ri ka 'ra- 
bomp-r'oh, „he put it on his head." Ren' is a euph. form, 
used before words beginning with d, r and I. 

Ren, ka-, n. probably „night". It is always used with datroh, 
when the g is cut off for the sake of euphony. See next 
word. 

Ren' dalrdh, ka-, n. „midnight". See Fables p. 62. 

Ren'sa, (for rehasa), v. freq. and caus. (rad. ren), „mounl, ride 
upon, go" or „be on the top of, be upon," e. g. tse ren'sa 



— 236 — 

e-tgk, „do not go on the top of the wood;" — o reVsa a-soT, 

„he rides upon a horse;" — ka-trak ake ka ren'sa-mi, „this 

palaver is upon me." 
R6n'sa, (for reiigsa). v. freq. and inch. „get on the top, be on the 

top, rest, be;" e. g. o ren'sa ka ah -sol, „he got on the horse." 

Also „sit" (as a cap on the head); e. g. ah-lapra na ren'sa 

0-fino, „the cap sits well." 
R'etr, pi. s'etr, n. „a sun", def. ar'etr, „the sun" (considered as 

the source of light; an'el is the sun as the source of heat); 

e. g. ar'etr ra putr. „the sun rises." The pi. may be used 

if there is a reflection of the sun, as in the water, and there 

appear to be two su::s. 
Ri, pr. obj. == di, „it"; e. g. ara-beha gbutras-ri, „as to the rope 

shor'en it." Di is a euph. form. 
Ri, adv. loc. = di, „there"; e. g. tse ko ri, „do not go there." 

Di is a euph. form of ri. 
Ria, pr. emph. — d!a, „it, this;" e. g. ar'dma-ra-mi ria yi tsi, 

„this is my shir!," lit, „my shirt this is it." Dia is a euph. 

form. 
Ri-a, adv. loc. emph. = di-a, „there" ; e. g. ro ah-gbalan na gbope, 

ri-a o botr ara-bomp-r'oh, „where the rock was rugged, there 

he put his head." Di- a is a euph. form of rl-a. 
Ri-ah, adv. loc abs. = di-an, „there"; e.g. ri-ah o yi, „there 

he is;" — o yi ri ri-ah, = ri-ah ri o yi, „he is there" or 

„thcre he is." Dl-ah is a euph. form. (Cf. -h under N.) 
Riah, pr. abs. „it, this;" e. g ara-bena-ra-mi riah, „this is my 

rope," lit. ,,the rope of me it." 
Rianna, n. „ heaven" (as the residence of the blessed); Mand. 

aryena. From the Ar. »J^, hortus, paradisus. E. g. ro- 

rianna, „in heaven." 

Ri'gba. a-, pi. c-, n. „head\voman of the Bondo Institution. E.g. 
an-rigba o kus am-bondo, „the headwoman of the Bondo 
Institution discharged the Bondo girls" or „closed the Bondo 
ceremonies by a public procession." 

R'im, — d'im, pl.s'im, n. „a \\ord, voice; command;" also pro- 
mise"; e. g. ar'im-ra-mi, „my word;" — 1 tral r'im ra-bana, 



— 237 — 

„I heard a great (strong) voice;" — ar'im ra K'uru, „the 
word of God." D'im is a euph. form of r'im. 

R'in, adj. num. = din, „one"; e. g. r'im r'in, „one word;" — 
ra-bena r'in, „one rope." D'in is a euph. form. 

Ro, adv. loc. ,,yonder, at," or „to some distance;" e.g. kone 
ro, „go yonder;" — ha yi ri ro, „they are (here yonder." 
Also „\vhere, whereon, wherein;" e. g. ka-fant'r ro o fanta, 
,,lhe bed whereon he lay down;" — o som a-reka, ro o gbal-e 
ho etc., „he sent a letter, wherein he wrote that etc." 

Ro, prep. loc. „at, in, to, from, upon, on;" e. g. q yi ro-set, 
„he is in the house;" — o yefa ro-petr, „he came from 
town;" — Q ko ro-Kamp, „be went to Sierra-Leone." The 
sense of this prep, is indicated by the verb with whicb it 
is used. There is a euph. form do-, which see. 

Ro-be, „ wherever"; e.g. ro ma ko be 1 tsi tram-mu, „whercver 
thou goesl, I shall follow thee." 

Roder,' prep, and posip. „at the face;" e.g. roder-ka-mi kadi, 
„before my face;" — o yi-mi roder kadi, „he is before my 
face." 

Rodi, adv. loc. „ahead, before; on, onwards, forwards;" e.g. sa 
ko he rodi, „we do not go ahead;" — ko rodi, „go forwards" 
or „go on" or „go before;" — trama rodi, „stand ahead." 
Cf. also kadi. 

Rodi, prep, and postp. „before, in front, beyond;" e.g. o yi-mi 
rodi, „he is before me," = o yi rodi-ka-mi; — kara-mi a ra- 
beha ara fanta rodi ka arah, „ bring me the rope which lies 
beyond that one;" — o trama rodi ka an-set, „he stands 
before the house." 

R'of, pi. s'of, n. „a horned viper, cerastes;" e. g. r'of ra-bana, 
„a large horned viper." 

Rok, v. a. „cut, reap" (as rice); fig. „decide, settle, judge" (as 
a matter); e. g. 'a ko rok pa-la, „thc\ go to reap rice," — 
0-bal o tra rok am-pa, „the king will settle the matter." 

Rok, ka-, n. verb. „act of cutting" or „reaping, harvest; act of 
deciding" or „seltling" or „judging;" e. g. ka-rgk-k'oh pa- 
la, „his reaping rice;" — ka-rok ka-fi'no, „a good harvest." 



— 238 

Rok an-touka, ka-, n „lhe judgment" (as of the last day). 
Roka, v. rel. „cut-for-; cut-with-; reap-for-, reap-with-; reap 

with-" (as with joy); fig. ,,decide-for-;" e. g. o roka-ko a-tis, 

„he cut him with a knife;" — o roka-mi pa-la. „he reaps 

(cuts) rice for me;" — o-bal o tra roka-mi am-pa, „the king 

will settle the matter for me." 
Rokan, adv. loo. „wilhout, out, out of doors;" e. g. wur rokah, 

„come out;" - yira rokah, „sit without;" — o trama rokah, 

„he stood without;" — 'a kere-ko rokan, „thev led him out." 
Rokan, prep, and postp. „at the. outside, without;" e. g. o yi 

rokan ka ah-set, „he is al the outside of the house." 
Rokin, adv. together, to one place, at one place, at the same 

place;" e. g. na tonklane rokin, „they assembled together;" 

— botr-ha rokin, „put them together." 
Rokom, adv. loc. „up, on high, upwards, above, from above;" 

e. g. o yi ri rokom, „he is there above;" — ah-gbal aha beka 

ma-ran rokom, „the second line from above." Cf. also rorata. 
Rokom, = dokom, prep, and postp. „above. on the top, at the 

top;" e. g. o yi rokom ka ah-set, = o yi ka ah-set rokom. 

„he is on the top of the house." Dokom is a euph. form. 
Rokor, adv. loc. „at the inside, within;" e. g. na yi ri rokor, 

„it is there within." 
Rokor, prep, and postp. „ within, into, at" or „in the inside;" 

e. g. ha yi-mi rokor, „it is within me;" — botr-ni rokor ka 

am-poti, = botr-hi ka am-poti rokor, „put it into the cup." 
Rolehken, adv. loc, „yonder. to the neighbouring yard, to some 

distance, to the other side;" e.g. „sa kone rolehken, „we 

go to the neighbouring yard." 
Rolehken, prep, and postp. „on the other side, beyond;" e. g. 

ka-petr ka yi rolehken ka ka-tseh, = ka-pctr ka yi ka ka- 

tseh rolehken, „the town lies on the other side of the hill." 
Rom, a-, pi. e-, n. ..leprosy"; e. g. o ba a-rom. ,.he is a leper," 

lit. „he has leprosy;" = a-rom ha wop-ko. 
Romi, pr. comp. „to me, from thee, with me; towards me; against 

me; at" or „to my place, there" or „yonder at" or „to my 



— 239 — 

place;" e. g. o der romi, „he came to me;" — o di romi, 
„he ate at my place." 

Romori, adv. loc. „to Ihe other side" (as of a brook); e. g. q 
kone romori, „he went over to the other side" (of the water). 

Romdri, prep, and postp. „to the other side, beyond, to the op- 
posite side" or „shore"; e. g. o tas romori ka 'ra-boh, „he 
passed over to the other side of the river." 

Romp, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „pestle" (for a mortar); e. g. k§-romp 
ka-lol, „a small pestle." 

Romu, pr. comp. „to thee, with thee, from thee, at" or „to thv 
place, there" or „yonder to" or „ at thy place; against thee; 
towards thee;" e. g. o yi romu, „he is there with thee;" — 
o tra der romu, „he will come to thee." 

R'on, or r'on', pi. s'on, n. „way, road;" e. g. o trori-mi ar'dh, 
„he showed me the way." The euph. form r'on' is used before 
words beginning with d, as: trdri-mi ar'dn' da ro Ma-la!, „shovv 
me the way to Malal;" — r'on' da-fino, ,,a good road." 

R'on, pr. poss. „his, her," lit. „of him, of her;" e. g. ar'uma- 
r'oh, „ his shirt." 

Ron, a-, pi. e-, n. „ image, figure, idol, mask" (usually made of 
wood and painted); e. g. o won a-roh, „he put on a mask." 

Ron, a-, or i-, pi. ma-; or also sometimes a-, in the sing, and 
e-, in the pi. n. ..mountain"; the pi. ma-ron is used of a 
,,chain of mountains," hence they call the Colony of Sierra- 
Leone: ro Ma-ron, lit. „at the mountains." E. g. a-ron a- 
boli rokom, „a lofty mountain." 

Rohan, pr. comp. „to them, with them, from them; towards 
them; against them; at" or ,,to their place, there" or „yonder 
at" or „to their place;" e. g. q di rohah, „he ale at their 
place;" — 'a kalane ronah, „they returned home," lit. „they 
returned lo their place." 

Rdnkat, v. n. „be bitter; be harsh, be acerb" (as unripe limes); 
e. g. ma-ber ma ronkal, „the palmwine is bitter." 

Rohko, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „branch of a palm-tree with" or ..with- 
out the side-leaves, palm-branch;" e.g. o gbak ka-rohko, „he 
cut a palm-branch." 



— 240 — 

Rgndn, pr. eomp. „to him, with him; towards him; against him; 
at" or „to his place, there" or ponder at" or „to his place;" 
e. g. o der roi'ion, „he came to him;" — o pa rgnori, „he 
said to him;" — 'a yefa roririri, „they came away from him;" 
— o kalane ronon, „he returned to his place (home)." 

Rgnu, pr. comp. „to you, with you, from you; against you; to- 
wards you; al" or „to your place, there" or „yonder at" 
or „to your place;" e. g. o kone ronu, „he went yonder to 
your place;" o der ronu, „he came to you." 

Ro-pil, see Pil, ka-, n. 

Roraran, adv. loc. „behind, at the place behind, behind" (the 
house); „abaft, aback;" e. g. o yi ri roraran, „he is there 
behind;" — trnma roraran, „stand behind," or „sland abaft." 

Roraran, prep, and postp. „behind, at the back part;" e. g. q 
tr^ma mi roraran, = o trama rorarari-ka-mi, „he stands be- 
hind me," or also „he backs me;" — o yi roraran ka an- 
kurik, „he is behind the fence." 

Rorata, adv. loc. „below, beneath;" e. g. ra yi ano roraia, „it 
is here below;" — ka rokrim ha rorata, „from the top down 
to the bottom." 

Rorata, prep, and postp. „l»elow, beneath, under, at the botlom;" 
e. g. re ma botr an-tis-e? I botr-rii rorata ka am-mesa, 
„ where didst thou put the knife?" „l put it under the 
table;" — owo yi rorata -k'ori, „who is under him" (i. e. 
under his power); — ka an-tof rorata, or: rorata ka an-tof, 
„ under the earth " 

Ros, v. n. „sei ve up food" (especially rice by taking it out from 
the pot, in which it was cooked, with a spoon into a dish, 
with or without e-nak, „rice"); e. g. o bap-ria 'a tra ros, 
„he met them serving up rice " 

Ro6, v. a. „dish up, serve up" (as food); e.g. 'a ros e-nak, „they 
served up rice." 

Ro-toron, see Toron, ka-, n. 

Ru, v. a. „ plait, weave;" e. g. o Ira ru k'ota ka-fino, ,.he is 
weaving fine cloth." 

Ru, ra-. pi. tra-, n. „tbe world, the universe;" e. g. ka 'ra-ru 



_ 941 — 

ara ma der-e, sa tra rok ey'etr, eye sa poh sak ano-rQ, „in 
the world to come we shall reap the things, which we have 
sown in this world." 
Ruba, v. a. „bless"; e. g. o niba-na, ,.he blessed them." 
Riiba, a-, pi. e-, n. „a blessing"; e. g. an-niba-iVon, „his blessing;" 

— a-rriba nan, „that is a blessing," lit. „a blessing that." 

s ' 
Ruhu, o-, n. „Spirit" (of God). From the Ar. .», anhelitus, 

spiritus. E. g. o-ruhu ka K'liru, „the Spirit of God." 
R'uma, pi. s'uma, n. „a shirt, robe, the long garment worn by the 

Mandingos;" e. g. ar'uma are ra fino, ,,this robe is good." 

Also „ afterbirth." 
Runi, Q-, pi. a-, n. „a man, male;" e. g. a-riini a-sas, „three men;" 

— an-runi, „the males." 

Runi, adj. „male"; e. g. a-fam a-runi, „men", lit. „male per- 
sons;" — w'ahet runi, .,a boy," lit. „a male child." 

Runi o-bi, q-, pi. a-runi a- bi, n. „a black male, black man, negro. " 

Runi o-fera, Q-, pi. a-runi a-fera, n. „ a white male, a white man, 
a European." 

R'unia, pi. s'unia, n. „multitude, crowd;" e. g. r'iinia ra a-fam 
ra-bana ra yi ri, „there was a great crowd of people there." 

Rurikatr, v. a. „mix" (as solids with liquids); „knead" (as dough); 
e. g. ruhkatr e-tof re m'antr, „mix the earth with water." 

Rusam, v. a. „ bring up, raise up, nurse; nourish;" e.g. mina 
rusam-ko, „1 brought him up;" — e-nak e rusam-sn, „rice 
nourishes us." 

S. 

S', pref. indef. insep. „a, an;" e.g. sadka, „ sacrifice;" as'adka- 
tr'on, „his sacrifice." It is a form of tr', or \s for: tra-. 
Cf. the form t' below. 
Sa, pr. subj. „we;" e. g. sa nan-ko dis, „wesaw him yesterday." 
S^bat, a-, pi. e-, n. „sabbath." From the English. 

S'adka, n. „sacrifice." Fr. the Ar. «j<Xo, cpiicquid datur Deo 
sacrum. The pi. is indicated by joining with it the adj. lai 

Terane - Worterbuch. 1 6 



049 

or gbati, „many," as: s'^dka tra-lal. „many sacrifices." In Vei : 
sadaka. 

Sak, v. a. ,, scatter disperse; sow;" e. g. sa ko sak pa-la tenon, 
„we go to sow rice to day;" — o sak ari-fam, „he disper- 
sed the people; — ara sa ma s^k, ria sa ba ka-pim," what 
we are sowing, that we have to reap (pluck)." 

Sak, ka-, pi. tra-, n. ,,rib ;" also „side;" e. g. fanta ro tra- 
sak, „lie on the side ;" — tra-sak-tr'oh, „his ribs " 

Saka, v. rel. ,,seatter-with- , scatter-for-; sow-for-, sow-with- ; 
sow with-;" e. g. saka e-troko apa-la, „scatter the rice for 
the fowls; — saka-mi pa-la, ,,sow rice for me." 

Saka, a-, pi. e-, n. ,,a country dish," also called „palaver-sauce," 
(being prepared of various herbs with fish and palm-oil); e. g. 
a-saka a-boti-di, „a delicious palaver sauce." 

S3kane, v. spont. or rather reeipr. (rad. sak), „disperse;" e. g. 
an-fam na sakane. ,,the people dispersed." Also „ separate 
from each other, part," (as man and wife). 

Sakar, v. rel. (rad. sak), „bespatter-with-, bespatter/' also, „blot, 
stain;" e. g. o sakar ak'ota-k'oii d'Qba, ,,he stained his cloth 
with ink." 

Sake, v. n. ,,turn , turn oneself; become changed " or „altered," 
fig „become converted," (with or without mera, ,,mind"); 
e. g. o gbdli he so sake, v he cannot turn himself again;" — 
o-tem owe o sake gba, „this old man is much changed." 

Sake, ka-, n. verb. ,,acl of turning oneself; acl of being" or 
,, gelling changed, change;" fig. ,, conversion;" e. g. ka-sake- 
k'on ro-toroh, ,,his turning himself towards the east;" — ka- 
sake-k'on, „his conversion." 

Sake ma-der, „become flesh, become man;" e. g. o sake ma- 
der, ,,he became man " 

S^ki, v. a. „turn, change, make;" fig. „convert" (with mera); 
e. g. o saki-ko o-mori, „he made him a Mohammedan;" — o 
s£ki am-mera-ho'n, „he converted him." 

Sakine, v. refl. a- „turn oneself into- , change oneself into-," 
(as a person into a leopard) ; „make oneself- ;" e. g. o sakine 
o-santki, „he made himself a Santki (minister)." 



— 24^ — 

Sal, v. a. „form, build" (as a house, or a pot of mud or clay); 
e. g. o sal a-se!, ,,he buili a house." 

Sal, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „fmger," also „toe" (of the foot); 
e. g. ma-sal-m'gh, „his fingers." 

S£la, v. rel. (rad. sal), „form-for-, build-for-; build-wilh- , form- 
with-;" e. g. o sala-mi a-set, „he built a house for me. u 

Salma, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „psalm;" e. g. ma-salma ma-sas, 
„three psalms." Adopted. 

Salkar, adj. „salted, salt;" e. g. o-sem o-salkar, „salt meat." 

Sam, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „an open running sore, a sore, ulcer; 
wound;" e. g. ka-sam ka-bana, „a large sore." 

Sam, adj. „sacred, holy;" e. g. d'er o-sam, „a sacred place." 

Samas, v, caus. (rad. sam), „make sacred, make holy, set apart 
from common use; sanctify;" e. g. 'a samas od'er owe, 
„they made this place sacred." 

San, ka-, pi. tra-, n „mouth, lip," (also used of the lips of a wound); 
fig. „advocate;" e. g. ka-sah-ka-mi, „my mouth," or also 
„my advocate;" — tra-san tra ka-sam, „the lips of the wound." 

San ka o-bai, ka-, n. „an ambassador, a herald," lit. „the mouth 
of a king." 

S 1 §ni, n. „acerbity" (as of unripe limes); „quality of setting the 
teeth on edge;" fig. „pity, regret;" e. g. s'yni tra yi ka e- 
sek-'e-mi, „my teeth are set on edge," lit. „acerbity is to 
my teeth;" — ma-lemre ma ba s'ani, „ the limes are acerb," 
lit. „the limes have acerbity," or „such a qualiiN as to set 
the teeth on edge;" — as'ani tra wop-mi „my teeth are set 
on edge," lit. „the state of having sot the teeth on edge 
holds me;" — o ba s'ani trdka tron , „he has pity on ac- 
count of him." See Proverb 1, p. «j8. 

Sanne, v. refl. for: saiine (rad. sah), „bow oneself down, bend one- 
self down, stoop; make a compliment", (of males only); ,,bend 
itself" (as the blade of a knife); „submit to one's authority, 
submit;" e. g. o sanne rohdh, „he bowed down to him," 
or „he made a compliment to him." or ,.he submitted to 
him;" — an-tis na sanne, „the knife bends itself;" — o sanne, 
„he stooped down." 

16* 



— 244 — 

S<mtki, o-, pi. a-, n. „a minister (of a king);" e. g. Q-s£ntki o- 
las, „a bad minister." 

Santr, e-, n. „seed," (especially of rice), e. g. o ba e-santr 
traka kuta, „he has (rice) seed to plant (sow)." 

Santrak, a-, or i-, pi. ma-; or also sometimes a-, pi. e-, n. „nail," 
(of the fingers or toes); „talon, claw," (of beasts); e. g. 
ba e-santrak e-boli, „he has long nails." 

Sap, v. a. „strike, flog, beat," (as a person, or as waves a canoe); 
also „ thresh" (as rice); „ catch " (as a bird); „get," (as 
trouble); „scoop, lad out," (as water from a bowl, or food 
from a dish); e. g. 'a sap-ko, „they flogged him;" — o sap 
a-rom, „he got leprosy;" — 'a sap e-nak, „they took out 
the rice;" — q sap-mi ka-tsih, „he flogged me for nothing;" 
— o sap m'one, „he got trouble," lit. „he catch trouble," 
(as the Liberat. Africans say). 

Sap, v. n. or pass. „be flogged; be caught;" e. g. o sap ro- 
bolo. „he was caught by the throat," 

Sap, ka-, n. verb. „act of flogging" or „of threshing, etc.;" e.g. 
ka-sap-k'on, „his flogging," (actively or passively); „also: a 
flogging; a threshing." 

Sapa, v. rel. „flog-with-; thresh-with-; flog-for-; thresh-for- ; 
lade out-for-;" e. g. 'a sapa-ko k'etr, „they flogged him with 
a whip;" — sapa-mi apa-la, „thresh the rice for me." 

Sapar, a-, pi. e-, n. „digger," (being a sort of hoe, but running 
parallel with the handle, and not forming an angle; it is 
used to dig holes with for the sinking of posts for houses); 
e. g. a-sapar a-bana, „a large digger." Also „an iron bar" 
(used to dig holes with). 

Sapjis, v. freq. a. (rad- sap), „catch in a trap, catch, ensnare, 
entrap;" e. g. ow'^n owe o sapas e-bamp na-r«in, „this boy 
caught two birds in a trap." 

Sar, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „a stone;" e. g. ma-sar ma-lal, „many 
stones." 

Sara, v. a. „carry on the head, carry, put on the head, be load- 
ed with on the head; put on" (as a cap); „take upon 
oneself" (as a palaver); „have upon oneself; suffer, have," 
(as trouble); e.g. I sara-ko, or: 1 sara-ko ro-bomp, „1 car- 



— 245 — 

ried him on the head;" — o sara a-lapra, ,,he put on a 
cap;" — mina sara atr'ei tra-tsi, ,.1 lake that matter upon 
me;" — o sara m'one, ,,he suffers trouble." 

Sas, adj. num. „three;" e. g. a-fama-sas, or: a-fam na-sas, „three 
persons;'' — ma-re'i ma-sas," three days." 

Sas, ra-. n. „state of being three, trinity." 

Sebe, a-, pl.e-, n. „an amulet, a charm" (as hung round the arm, 
or neck, etc., and enclosed in leather or cloth; e. g. o ba 
e-sebe e-lai, „he has many charms". 

Sek, v. a. „tie, tie on," (as a person, or a charmj; „gird-wilh-;" 
e. g. ria sek ama-tra-m'oh, „they tied his hands;" — sek 
o-na ka ak'antr, ,,tie the cow to the post;" — 1 sek-ko a- 
gbato, „I girded him with a cutlass," or ,,I tied him on a 
cutlass;" — sek an-trol, „tie on the charm." Also ., fasten," 
as: ko sek am-bela, „go fasten the sail." 

Sek, ra-, pi. e-, n. „a tooth;" e. g. e-sek-y'on , ,.his teeth." 

Seke! \ int. .,1 pity thee!" It is always followed by: 6, and is pro- 

Seke'.'perly a noun signifying ,,pity." See Colloq. Phras. p. 
108. 110., and cf. also mutsi w'uni seke. 

Sekne, v. refl. a. (rad. sek), „1ie-on oneself, tie-round oncst'lf, gird 
oneself with-;" e. g. o sekne a-gbato. „he tied a cutlass round 
himself;" — q sekne a-trol, „he tied a charm on himself." 

Sel, ma-, n. „laughter; scorn, scornfulness, mockery;" e. g. ma- 
sel-m'on, „his laughter." Also ,, object of mockery," as: 'a 
saki-ko ma-sel, ,,they made him an object of mockery." 

Sel-tr'el, adj. „inclined to ridicule" or ,.mock at a thing, scorn- 
ful;" e. g. w'uni sel-tr'el, „a scornful person." 

Seline, v. refl. n. (rad. soli), „lean oneself on backwards, recline 
oneself, recline;" e. g. o seline ka aiVantr, ,,he leaned him- 
self against the tree." 

Seline, v. refl. a. ,.Iean oneself upon-backwards, lean oneself 
back against-; rely on-, repose on-, trust on-;" e.g. o seline 
an-set, ,,he leaned himself back against the house;" — o 
seline K'uru, „he relies on God." 

Selo, v. n. „will, be willing, consent;" e.g. o pa ho: I lelo, 
„he said: I will." 



— 24C> — 

Selo, ma-, n. „will, pleasure; readiness;" e. g. ma-seUo-rn'ori, 
„his will." 

Sem, o-, n. „beef, meat," e. g. o-,sem o-fino, „good beef." 

Sem, a , pi. e-, or tra-; or also sing, o-, pi. tra-, n. „a wild animal, 
venison , a beast of the chase , animal , quadruped ;" e. g. 
o-sern o-ninis, „a fierce animal" See the two next words. 

Sem e-trol, e-, n. ,, cattle of the larger kind," lit. „beasts reared 
up." The small cattle are called: y'etr e-trol, lit. „things 
reared up." 

Sem ka ka-petr, o- , pi. tra-sem tra ka-petr, n. „a tame beast," 
lit. „a beast of the town." The sing, may also take the 
form: a-sem 'a ka-petr, and the pi. e-sem ya ka-petr. The 
pi. may be given by: „cattle."*) 

Sem ka ro-kant, o-. pi. tra-sem tra ro-kant, n. „a wild animal," 
lit. „a beast of in the wood." The sing, may also take the 
form a-sem 'a ro-kant, and the pi. e-sem ya ro-kant. See 
the Note for the preceding word. 

Sen'! j int. „welcome!" It is always followed by : 6, and is pro- 

SeneP bably a noun signifying ,, welcome." See Colloq. Phras. p. 
107. 110. 

Sene! int. answering to the English ,,God bless thee!" It is 
used after sneezing. See Colloq. Phras. p. 108. 

Sena, a pi. e-, n. ,,a greegree, charm," (used to detect thieves 
with). It generally consists of a goat's horn, to which some 
of its hair, strips of cloth, and some beads, etc. are tied. 
When it is made use of, fearful curses are pronounced ag- 
ainst the offender, which the greegree is to execute upon 
the hidden criminal. 

Sene, n. prop. See Proverb. 3, p. 99. 

Sene! int. see sen'! above. 

Senk, adv. „all, whole; fully, entirely." It has often the sense 
of an adj. = be; e.g. q tarn ha senk, ,,he conquered them 



k ) Note. There are still some other forms for the sing, 
and pi., as will be seen in the Grammar. 



— 247 — 

all," or „the whole of them ;" mo o pon kane sehk. 

etc , ,,when he had said all, etc. " 
Seno; a-, or i-. pi. ma- . n. „arrow," (made of a kind of cane 

with an iron beard); e. g. o ba ma-seno ma-lai, „he has 

many arrows. - ' 
Set, a-, pi. e-, n. „a house, abode, dwelling, building; nest," (as 

of birds); e. g. q sal a-set, „he built a house; — o yi ro- 

set, „he is in the house." 

Setani, n. „Satan, the devil," Fr. the Ar. ^tiaJui, satanas, dia- 

bolus. 
Sete, ka-, pi. tra-, n, a rod. slick," (as to flog with, or to drive 

cows away with); e. g. ka-sete ka-boli, .,a long rod." 
Sim, v. a. „break, break off, br^ak in two," (as a stick); ..break 

down, pull down" (as a house); o sim ak'antr, ,,he broke 

the stick in two." 
Si'mtar, arlj. (rad. lira), „sudden. unexpected;" e. g. ra-fi ra- 

si'mtar, „a sudden death." 
Sip, o-, pi, tra- n. ,,a leopard;" e, g. o-sip o-bana, „a large 

leopard." 
Site, v. n. „break the wind " 
So, adv. ,, again, also;" e. g. tie so yo-tsi, „do not do it 

again." 
So, v. n „bend , bow" (as the knee) ; also „sling, pierce, stab; 

pierce-with-, stab-with-:" e. g. o so-mi a-tis, ,,he stabbed 

me with a knife." See next word. 
So tra-wu, „kneel down," lit. ..bend the knees;" e. g. o so 

tra-wu-tr*oh, „he kneeled down." 
S6fali, a-, pi. e-, or tra; or also sing, o-, pi. tra-, n. „an ass;" 

e. g. o ren'sa a-sofali, „he rides upon an ass." 
Sol, a-, pi. e-, or tra-; or also sing, o-, pi. tra-, n. ..a horse;" 

e. g. o wal a-soi, „he bought a horse." 
Sol, adv. „softly, quietly, calmly, easily, ; slowly: secretly;" e g. 

o yo-tsi sol, „he did it softly;" — o kot soi, „he walked 

slowly; - I gbali yo-tsi soi, „he can do it easily." 
Sok, v. impers. „dawn;" e. g. yokane, pa sok! „get up, it dawns!" 



— 248 — 

Sgkane, v. refl. „hunt;" e. g. o ko sokane, „he goes (went) a 
hunting." 

Sdkane, ka-, n. „act of hunting, hunting;" e. g. ka-sdkane-k'on, 
„his hunting." 

Sdki, o-, pi. a-, n. „a seer, one having four eyes" (as they call 
it), „one having to do with familiar spirits, one possessed 
of second sight, augur, wizard," e. g. ow'uni owe o yi o- 
soki, „ this person is a wizard." 

Sdko, v. n. „be awake, be sleepless, be up during the night, 
spend the night." As an aux. it expresses the adv. „ all 
night." E. g. 'a sdko tdmo, „they danced all night;" — 
o sdko gbes, „he was awake all night," or „he was up all 
night; — o sdko romi „he spent the night with me." 

Som, v. a. „send;" also „cause;" e. g. Pa Sori o som-kg romi, 
„Mr. Sori sent him to me;" — tsfa som-kg o yo-tsi, „this 
caused him to do it." Also .,send-to-," as: o som-ko a-reka, 
„he sent a letter to him." 

S5m, v. n. „send"; also „be the cause;" e. g. d sOm traka tsela- 
ko, „he sent to call him;" — tsfa som o dinne, „this caused 
him to perish," lit. ,.this is the cause he perished/' 

Som, ka-, pi. tra-; or a-, pi. e-, n. ,, message;" e. g. o ke!re-ko 
a-som, ,,he carried a message to him." 

Som, v. a. „devour, eat;" e. g. o som am-bamp tcirap, „he de- 
voured the bird entirely." Also „nibble" (as a rat a wooden 
bowl.) 

Som, euph. form of son, ,, give", used before m; see: son, below. 

Sdmpa, adj. ..troubling"; also passively „punished, troubled;" e.g. 
tr'ei tra-sdmpa, „somt j thing troubling," or , something which 
causes trouble." 

Sdmpa, ka- pi. tra-, n. „act of punishing, punishment" (in- 
flicted); e. g. ka-sdmpa-k 1 on, „his punishment.'* 

Sdmpane, v. refl. „suffer," lit. „trouble" or „punish oneself; 
be afflicted;" e. g. ow'uni owe o sompane o-lai, „this per- 
son suffers much." 

Sdmpane, ka-, pi. tra-. n. „suffering, punishment" (endured); 



— 249 — 

^affliction;" e. g. ka-sompane ka-bana ka wop-ko, „he is 
greatly afflicted," lit. „ great, affliction holds him." 

Som'ra, (for: somara), v. doubl. rel. (rad. som) „send-to-, send- 
for-;" also simply „send;" e. g. Pa Sori o som'ra-mu-ni, 
„Mr. Sori sent it lo thee;" — o som'ra-ko ro-k'or, he sent 
him to the farm." 

Son, adv. „alone, only;" e. g. min' son , „1 alone;" — kon' 
son, „he alone;" — kon' son taho, „not he alone." 

Sgn, v. a. give, deliver;" e g. o som-mi ka-bo, „he gave me 
country-bread;" — o son an-kala ka o-kas-k'on. ,,he gave 
the money to his father," — o son o-kas-k'on an-kala. 

Sona, v. rel. (rad. so), „bend-for-, bow-to-," (as the knees to 
one. See next word. 

Sona w'uni tra-wu," bow the knees lo" or „for one, kneel down 
before one;" e. g. 'a sona-ko tra-wu, „they bowed the knees 
before him," = „they kneeled down before him." 

Sohala, a-, pi. e-, or tra-, or sing, o-, pi. tra , n. „a lion;" e. g. 
a-soriala a-bana, „a large lion." 

Sond, v. a. abr. (rad. son), „deiiver up, give up, give away ; resign" 
(as an office); „part with; e. g. o-bal o sond an-tof, „the king 
gave the country away;" — 'a sond-ko ronan, ,,they deliver- 
ed him up to them;" — I gbali he ni sond, „1 cannot part 
with it." 

Sor, adj. „daubed over with mud, mudded, made of mud; e. g. 
a-set a-sor, „a mud-house." 

Sor, a-, pi. e-, n. ,.a Fula javelin, spear; a stick with an iron 
fork used for throwing;" also „a long stall tipped with brass" 
or „silver, borne by old men as a sort of badg<- of honour." 

Stfro, e-, n. „ excrements of infants; e. g. e-soro ya ow'ah^t, 
„the excrements of the infant." 

Sot, v. n. „sew;" e. g. o sol o-bana, „he sews with large 
stitches;" — o sot o-fino, „he se^s well." 

Sot, a-, or i-, pi, ma-; or also a-, pi. e-, n. „a trick, an artifice; 
cunning, stratagem;" e. g. o-trar owe o ba a-sol alas, „this 
slave has a bad trick." The pi. form ma-sot , is also used in 
the sense of „craftiness, cunningness." 



— 250 — 

Sole, v. n. „piss, urine, make water." 

Soto, v. a. „receive, get, acquire, obtain;" also „get into" (as 

into some state); e. g. sa pon soto aii-ram-'a-su, „we have 

got our pay;" — o soto i-nei, „he obtained mercy," or also 

„he is in a pitiable state so as to deserve pity." 
Soto, ka-, n. verb. „act of getting" or „obtaining." 
Soto a-mera, v. n. „get sense, come to the years of discretion;" 

e. g. o pon' to soto a-mera, he has now come to the years 

of discretion." 
Sotona, v. rel. „obtain-for-, get-for-;" e. g. som-mi an-kala ana 

ma sotona-mi, „give me the money, which thou didst get 

for me." 
Su, pr. obj. „us;" e. g. o sap-su, „he flogged us." 
Su, ka-, pi. tra-j n. „pipe" (as made of corkwood); „trumpet:" 

e. g. fen aka-su, „blow the trumpet." 
Sule, v. n. „have diarrhoea, have loose bowels; be loose" (as 

the bowels); e. g. ak'or-ka-mi ka sule, my bowels are loose." 
Sule, adj. „loose" (as bowels); e.g. o ba k'or ka-sule, „he has 

!oose bowels." 
Sulima, o-, pi. a-, n. „one of the Sulima nation, a Sulima." 
Sum, a-, n. „a fast;" e. g. 'a wop an-sum, „they hold the fast," 

Go" 

or „the Ramadan." Fr. the At. *«-o> abstinentia a cibo, potu 
etc., ab aurora usque ad solis occasum, jejunium. 

Srima, e-, n. „ times." The sing, is not used; it always oc- 
curs in the phrase: e-siima ye, ,.now-a-days, now at this 
time;" e. g. reke Yisua o yi e-suma ye-e? „where is Jesus 
now?" 

ir'ul, v. a. „rub" (as in washing or otherwise); „strike; stroke;" 
also „shoot with-, fire off-, discharge," (as a gun); „shoot;" 
e.g. I sut-ko, „1 rubbed him;" — o sut ka-tra-k'on, „he 
rubbed his hand;" — o sut am-pinkar, ,,he discharged the 
gun." 

Sutne, v. reft. „rub oneself" (as in washing); „strike" or „ knock 
oneself;" e g. sutne o-tot, „rub thyself well." 

Sutar, v. rel. „shoof at-, fire a'-, shoot," (with or without pirikar); 



— 251 — 

e. g. o sutar-ko, or: o sutar-ko a-pi'hkar, „he shot him," 
lit. „he shot at him," or „he shot at him with a gun;" — 
o sutar am-bani[', „he shot the bird." 

Siitara, v. doubl. rel. „shoot at-with-, fire at-with-," e. g. 'a 
sutara-ko a-pihkar, „they shot at him with a gun." Also 
„shoot al-for-, u as „sulata-mi-ko, „shoot at him fur me," 
= „ shoot him for me." 

Sya, pr. emph. „we;" but also used for the sing. „1" when 
joined with other emph. pronouns, or with proper names, 
implying the copula „and;" e.g. sva Pa Sori sa kone, „l 
and Mr. Sori we go;" — sva an-Temne sa Ira he ama- 
Irei ame, or: sva 'n-Temne etc., „\ve Temnes do not know 
these things." 

T. 

T, pref. indef. insep. „a, an;" e.g. t'amasere, „an evidence;" 
il is an abbr. form of tra, which is evident from the fad 
that the adjective takes the pref. tra-, as t'amasere tr.i- 
gbaran. „a clear evidence." 

Ta, adv. „vet; more;" e. g. o ta der he, „he did not vet come." It 
sometimes serves to express the comparative degree, as: riah 
pa-la pa ta la, „there rice is more plentiful " 

Ta, prep. „except, unless;" e. g. ma gbali he soto raka, ta nia 
kg ri, „thou wilt not get anv thing, unless thou u'oest go 
there." 

Tabana, adv. „for ever, ever;" with a negative „never. " E. g. 
an'antr na ro-yahannama na gbali ho dimse labana, „ the fire 
in hell will never go out. " 

Tabana, adj. „everlasting, eternal;" e.g. an'antr na-tabana, „the 
everlasting fire." 

Tabana tahkah, adv. emph. „for ever and ever, ever, at any time, 
to all eternity," = tankah tabana, with a negative ,,never 
at any time, not at any time." E. g. sa tra yi ro-rianna ta- 
bana tankan, „we shall be in heaven for ever and ever;" 
- — tabana tankan I bun be an-loh'-a-mu , „I never at any 
time transgressed thy commandment," 



— 252 — 

Taho, adv. „not; e. g. ye taho, „not so;" — kon' taho y<5-tsi, „it 
is not he -who did it," or „not he did it;" — niin' taho, 
„it (is) not 1;" — ey'etr-'e-mi yja taho, „these are not my 
things." This negative may be used more absolutely without 
a verb, which is not the case with he, or fe, and tie. It 
generally implies the substantive verb „be" like the Hebr. 

T&kas, v. n., „learn;" e. g. w'an, ma takas o-fino! „boy, thou 

doest learn well!" 
Takas, v. a. „learn;" e.g. ma t:\kas ka-gbal-i? „didst thou learn 

to write?" 
Tak'sa, v. caus. „ make-to learn, teach, instruct;" e. g. ma yema 

ho I tak'sa-mu-i? „doest thou wish me to teach thee?" 
Tak'sa, v. rel. (for: takasa), „teach- for-;" e. g. tak'sa-mi-ko. 

„instruct him for me;" — o tak'sa a-fam ka-t.semp ka-bana, 

„he taught people with great wisdom." 
Tak'sa, kg-, n. verb. „ act of teaching, teaching, instruction;" e.g. 

ka-tak'sa-k'on, ,. his instruction." 

O _ 7 J7 

Talane, Q-, n. „ boundary, termination, end;" e. g. o-tdlanJB wa 
an-tof, „the end of the earth;" — ah-hesam-'a-su ano- 
rfl ha ba o-ta'lane, „our life in this world takes an end," lit. 
„ — — has an end." 

Talom, adv. „or;" e. g. ma gbali tran' do-gbah t;ilom ro-bah. 
„thou canst go by land or by water." 

Tarn, v. n. .,get the victory, conquer, be victorious;" e. g. am-bona 
ahe ha tain ka ka-tsim loko o loko, „ this nation gets always 
the victory in war." 

Tarn, v. a. „conquer overcome, subdue, defeat;" e.g. an-Temne 
ha tarn am-B61am, „the Temnes conquered the Boloms." 

T'amasere, n. „ evidence, witness, testimony; e. g. at'amasere- 
tr'oh trdka ovv'uni owfi, „his evidence about this person." 

Tambe, prep. „except, unless;" e. g. 1 tsi kalane nfnah, tambe 
k'unkal ka bentr-mi, „I shall return to morrow, unless a tor- 
nado prevent me. 

Tambe, conj. ,,unless, except;" e. g. I gbali he soto ak'ota, tam- 
be I ram-ki, „I cannot get the cloth, except I pay for it." 



— 253 — 

TArne, v. n. „awake , be awake;" e. g. ow'ahcl o tjime ton, 

„the child is awake now." 
T§mi, v. a., „awake, rouse from sleep;" e. g. \le 'imi-ko," do 

not awake him." 
Tami, adj. „conquering, victorious." It may follow a proper 
name without a prefix, when it is emphatic and may he 
given by „the Conqueror," as: Farma Tami, „Farma the 
Conqueror." 
Tamm, adv. spec. „quite, entirely, in profound silence, altoge- 
ther, completely," used with trank „be silent;" dim „ de- 
stroy;" and yira, „sit;" e. g. o-tem o yira tamm, „the old 
man sat in profound silence;" — o trank tamm, „he is 
quite still." 
Tam'ro, v. rel. inch, and pass. n. (for: tamaro or tamara), (rad. tarn), 
„get overcome, get routed, get defeated;" fig. „get tired, get 
beaten, not succeed, fail to obtain one's object, get baffled 
in one's attempts, be" or „get disappointed;" e.g. ari-Ltiko 
ria tam'ro, „the Lokos were defeated;" — 1 tap tra soto 
pa-la; kere I tam'ro, „I endeavoured to get rice: but I failed 
to obtain my object." 
Tam'ro, v. rel. inch and pass. a. lit. „get conquered by-, get 
overcome by-," or „in-," (as an army in war); hence: „not 
obtain-, fail to obtain, not get, miss; lose;" e. g. 'a tam'ro 
o-na, „they missed the cow" (which they sought to catch); 
— o tam'ro am-bok, „he did not get the snake;" — 1 
tam'ro-ko, „I missed him" (as in pursuing after one). 
Tam'ro, ka-, n. „defeat, overthrow; discomfiture; disappointment;" 

e. g. ka- tam'ro. ka ar'afa-r'ori, „the defeat of his army." 
Tan, o-, adj. but used adverbially „(a) little;" e. g. 1 dira gbo 

0-tan, „I slept but little." 
Tan, adj. „litlle, few;" e. g. m'anlr ma-lan, „a little water;" — 

ma-rei ma-tan, „a few days." 
Tan', for: tank, which see. This form is used before d. See 

Fables p. 56. 58. 
T£na, v. n. „be able, prevail." As an aux. it serves to express 
the Engl. aux. „can", and indicates ability to accomphish 



— 254 

what is denoted by the principal verb, which follows in the 
short form of the Infinitve. E. g. o tana he, „he is not 
able;" — ah-fam ahe na tana he yo ma-pant, „ these persons 
are not able to do work." 

Tana, v. n. „be able for-, prevail over, be a match for-, be equal 
to-, be able to keep up" or „to compete with-;" e. g. g-lahba 
owe o tana he owoh, „this young man is no match for that 
one;" — I tana-ko, I am able to compete with him;" — 
ow'an o tana-tsi, „the boy is able for it." 

Tanas, v. caus. „ enable, make able;" e. g. I tanas-ko tra yo-tsi, 
„I enabled him to do it." 

Tani, conj. „lest, that not;" e. g. i.se ko ri, tani ha sek-mu, „do 
not go there, lest they tie thee." 

Tani, adv. „soon, shortly, by and by;" e. g. I tsi der tani, or: 
tani I tsi der, „I shall come soon;" — o tra sap-mu tani 
„he will flog thee shortly." It may be joined with nouns 
indicating time, to make that time more definite, as: tani 
tratrak, „to night," or „this night," lit. „soon to night." 

Tank, a-, pi. e-, n. „root," (of a tree or shrub); e. g. a-tahk 
a bana, „a large root." Cf. Fables p. 56. 58. 

Tanka, * adv. „ever, for ever, always, at all times; some day, 

Tahkah, J one day, any time; much, very." With a negative 
„never." It is also sometimes used in the sense of an adj. 
denoting „much, many." E. g. ma nah'-ko tahkah-i? „ didst 
thou ever see him?" — sa tra yi ri tahkah, „we shall be 
be there for ever;" — I tsi tsela-mu so tahkah, „I will 
call thee again some day;" — o tra tru tahkah, „he is very 
sick;" — tse tsi so tahka yo, „ never do it again," lit „do 
not do it ever again;" — o dif a-fam tahkah, „he killed 
much people." The form tahkah is used more absolutely, 
or at the end of a proposition. (Cf. -h under N.) 

Tahka be, „very much, exceedingly; e.g. o lasar ak'ota tahka be, 
„he spoiled the cloth very much." 

Tahkah 6 tahkah, „for ever and ever, to all eternity, eternally." 
With a negative „never, not at any time;" e.g. an'antr na 
ro yahannama na gbali he dimse tahkah 6 tahkah, „the fire 
in hell will not so out for ever and ever." 



— 255 — 

Timkan tabana, — tabana tahkah, which see. 

Tanfa, ka-, pi. tra-, n. waterfall, cascade, cataract:" e. g. q yi 
ro-tanta, „he is at the waterfall." 

Tapan, adv. „formely, once, in former (old) times, long ago, 
before-time;-' e. g. w'rini o yi ri ro-Ma-lal tapan, „lhere was 
once a person at Malal;" — ah-fam ana yi ka ka-petr ake 
tapaii, „the people who were in this town in former times." 

Tarap, adv. ,.entirely, altogether; completely, quiie; well;" e.g. 
ah-kala-iVgh ha dinne tarap, „ his money is lost altogether ;" 
— I trara-ko tarap, „I know him well." 

Tas, v. impers. a ..surpass, exceed." It may he used to express 
the Comparative and Superlative degrees, as: sa poh he 
botar K'uru pa tas r'aka 6 raka, „we have not loved God above 
every thing," lit. „ — — it surpasses every thing. 

Tas, v. a. „surpass, pass, excel;" e. g. kono tas ah-nabi be, 
„he is superior to all the prophets," lit. „he surpasses all 
the prophets;" — ma tas-mi traka a-fosa, „thou art stronger 
than I," lit. ,,thou excellest me as regards strength." These 
examples will show that also this form is used to express 
the Comparative and Superlative. This is also the case with 
the next word, which see. 

Tas, v. n. „go on, pass, pass on, pass along: pass away" (as 
smoke); also „exceed excel;" e.g. o tas ka ah-set-'a-mi, 
„he passed at my house;" — ak'ima ka tas. „the smoke 
passes away;" — I ba a-kala a-gbati, kere kono tas, „I have 
much money, but he has more," = „he has more money 
than I." 

Tas, ka-, n. verb. „act of passing" or „of passing along" or 
„by;" e. g. ka-tas-k'oh ah-set-'a-mi, „his passing at my 
house." 

Tasa, v. caus. and pass. „ exceed, pass, surpass;" e. g. I tasa yi, „I 
am more than that," or „I exceed thus." lit. „I was made 
to exceed thus." Also this form may be used to express 
the Comparative and Superlative. 

Tasale, a-, pi. e-, n. „a brass pan used for ablutions by the Mo- 
hammedans at their prayers, pray-kettle." 



— 256 — 

T6si, v. a. „surpass, exceed, be superior to, excel; e. g. an-set- 
n'oii na tasi ah-set-'a-mi , „his house is superior to my 
house." Also „be too much for-," (as food for a number 
of persons); e. g. ey'etr e-di eye e tassi-na, „this food is 
too much for them." Like tas above this form is also much 
used to express the Comparative and Superlative; for which 
purpose tasi is also used intransitively. Tasi is the long 
form of tas. 

Tel, v. n. „rot, get rotten, decay, be rotten;" e. g. e-tok e tei, 
„the fire-wood gels rotten." 

Teli, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „atrap, snare" (for birds, or other 
animals, made of bamboo leaves, or of wooden rope); e. g. 
o gbatr ma-teli, „he set a trap." 

Telma, adj. „chatting, prating, loquacious;" e. g. w'uni telma, 
„a loquacious person," = „a prater." 

Telma, ka-, n. verb. „chatting, prating, loquaciousness;" e. g. 
ow'uni owe o ba ka-telma, „this person is fond of chatting;" 
— w'uni ka-telma, „a loquacious person," lit. „a person (of) 
loquaciousness." 

Tehna iModu, „a prater, a chatting person, babbler;" e.g. kane 
Telma Modu kdma o trank, „tell the prater to be silent." 
Cf. the word Modu under M, and Proverb 5, p. 99. 

Tern, o-, pi. a-, n. „old man, Sir." It is a title of respect to 
old men; e.g. o-tem, kori 'u! „I salute thee, Sir!" The 
indef. pref. na- may be 'put also behind the noun, as is the 
case with a few nouns of this class, as: tem-na, or: na-tem, 
„old men;" but: a-tem-ha, „the old men." 

Temne, o-, pi. a-, n. „one of the Temne nation, a Temne." About 
its derivation see Pref. §. 2. 

Temne, adj. belonging to the Temne country" or „people, of 
Temne origin, temne;" e. g. an-tof a-temne, „the Temne 
country." 

Ten, v. a. „seek, look for-, try to obtain"; e. g. ko r'aka ma ten-e? 
„whatdoest thou look for?" 

Ten, ka-, n. verb. „act of looking for;" e. g. ka-ten-k'on o-na, 
„his looking for the cow." 



— 257 — 

Tena, v. rel. „seek-for-, get -for-, provide -for-; procure -for-; 
supply-with what is necessary;" e.g. w'an, kg tena-mi g-na, 
„boy, go look me for the cow;" — o-tem g tena-mi y'etr 
e-di, „the old man supplies me with food;" — K'uru g 
tena-mi o-fino, „God provides well for me." 

Tenon, adv. „to day, this day;" e. g. g yg-tsi tengn, „he did 
it to day." 

Tengh ra-fgl, „this evening;" e. g. g tra der tengh ra-fgl, „he 
will come this evening." 

Tengn ra-yah, „to day at noon;" e. g. I tsi kdne tengn ra-yah, 
„I shall leave to day at noon." 

Tengh tratrak, „to night, this night;" e. g. g kas-ka-mi g tra 
der tengh tratrak, „my father will come to night." 

Tens, v. freq. or intens. a. (rad. ten), „search for-, look for- 
carefully, seek;" e. g. ko na tens ri-e? „what do ye search 
for there?" 

Tensa, v. freq. or intens. and rel. „search for- in behalf of-; look 
for- diligently in behalf of-, seek carefully for-;" e.g. tensa- 
mi nan ah-lapra-'a-mi, „seek ye my cap for me." Also „seek 
an occasion for-" (as for war, or palaver); e. g. o tensa ka- 
tsim, „he seeks much for an occasion of war" or „of a fight." 

Tenta, a-, pi. e-, n. „a hammock"; e. g. g fanta ro-tenta, „he lies 
in the hammock." 

Teri, ma-, n. „wrong" (the contrary of: right), „injustice; im- 
propriety, wrongness" (as of an action); „ fault, blame;" e.g. 
ba ma-teri, „he is in the wrong;" — 'a sgh-kg ma-teri, 
„they gave him wrong;" — ma-teri ma atr'ei atra g yg, „the 
impropriety of the thing which he did." 

Tesa, v. n. „be pleased, be gratified; please, give pleasure, be 
acceptable, be agreeable;" e. g. K'uru o tesa traka ;is'adka- 
tr'gh, „God was pleased with his sacrifice;" — as'adka-tr'gh 
tra tesa ka K'iiru, „his sacrifice was acceptable to God;" — 
ah-fef ahe ha tesa he, „this wind is not agreeable." 

Tesane, v. impers. refl. „please to-, give pleasure to-, delight," 
lit. „give pleasure to oneself;" e. g. pa tesane-mi traka trgh, 
„I am pleased" or „delighted with him," lit. „it gives plea- 

Temne - Worterbuch. 1 7 



— 258 — 

sure to me on account of him;" — pa tesane-ko, „he is 
delighted," lit. „it delights him." 

Tesas, v. caus. „make to be pleased, gratify, delight, cheer; make 
acceptable, ingratiate oneself with-; e. g. sa ba tra tesas o- 
bai, „we must make the king pleased;" — atr'ei atse tra 
tesas-mi, „this thing delights me." 

Tete, adv. „presently, now, just now, immediately;" e. g. tro 
sa ma yo tete-e? „how shall we do now?" — kane yo tete 
atr'ei atse-e? „who did now this thing?" — o-lahba o bek 
tete, „the young man came just now;" — yo-tsi tete, „do 
it immediately." 

Tetu, a-, pi. e-, n. „a messenger, an apostle;" e. g. o som'ra 
a-tetu ka o-bal, „he sent a messenger to the king." Some 
use the pref. o- in the sing, and a-, in the pi., as: o-tetu-ka- 
mi, „my messenger," but this form is not much used. 

Ti, ma-, n. „pus, matter" (as of a sore); e. g. ma-ti ma-lal ma 
wur ka ka-sam, „much pus came out from the sore." 

Tila, v. a. „sell"; e. g. o tila ak'ota, „he sold the cloth." 

Tila, v. n. „ trade"; e. g. o der tra tila, „he came to trade." 

Tirikar, v. rel. „press down upon-, press upon-," (as upon a 
debtor); „force" (as one to do a thing); „bear upon-" (as 
on a sail); e. g. w'an, tirikar am-ben, „boy, press upon the 
board;" — o tihkar-mi tra ram-ko an-kala, „he pressed upon 
me to pay him the money;" — o tinkar-ha tra ko ri, „he 
forced them to go there;" — tinkar am-bela, w'an! „bear 
upon the sail, boy!" 

Tis, a-, pi. e-, n. „a knife, a country knife;" e.g. kdra ba a-tis ( ! 
„ bring a knife here!" 

Tit, v. a. „choose, select, make a choice of-, pick out;" e. g. 
kali, e-lop e-gbati, ma gbali tit e-lom, „look, there are many 
fish, thou canst pick out some." 

To, adv. = ton, „now, then, already;" e. g. kali to ak'ota ake, 
„look now at this cloth;" — na pon' to dis wal ey'etr, „they 
had bought the things already yesterday." See also ton 
below. 



— 259 — 

Tof, a-, pi. tra-, n. „country, land;" e. g. an-tof a-temne, „the 
Temne country." 

Tof, a-, n. „soil, ground;" e. g. a-tof a-flno, „good soil." The 
def. form is also used for the terraqueous globe, as: an-tof, 
„the earth" or „the world;" e.g. an-tof be, „the whole earth." 

Tof, e-, n. „ground, earth" (as dug out to make mud with for 
to build houses); hence also „dirt, mud" (i. e. earth mixed 
with water); e. g. tse sakar-mi e-lof, „do not bespatter me 
with dirt." 

Tofal, adj. „ peaceful, quiet, meek, soft, gentle" (of animate and 
inanimate objects); „tame" (as a horse); „mild" (as liquors); 
„cool" (as food); „safe, out of danger; etc.;" e. g. w'uni 
tofal, „a quiet person;" — an-tof a-temne na yi a-tdfal, 
„the Temne country is quiet;" — ma-rei ma-tdfal, „peace- 
ful days;" — a-sol a-tdfal, „a tame horse;" — ow'uni owe 

ba a-mera tofal, „this person is of a soft temper." 
Tofal, o-, adj. but used adverbially „gently, softly, easily; peace- 
fully, in peace;" e. g. o yo-tsi o-tdfal, „he did it softly';" — 
'a bari-ko o-tofal, „they fetched him gently;" — kdne o- 
tofal! „go in peace!" 

Tofal, ma-, n. „peace; gentleness, meekness; jtameness; mild- 
ness;" e. g. o ba ma-tofal ro-mera, „he has peace in his 
heart;" — ma-tofal ma an-sol, „the tameness of the horse." 
Tdflo, i v. inch, (for: tdfalo), „get quiet, get easy, become paci- 
Tdfla, ' fied" or „quiet; get cool" (as the sun, or food, or 
anger); „abate" (as pain); e.g. am-mera-'a-mi na toflo he, 
be I nam fe ow'an-ka-mi, „my mind does not get easy, if 

1 do not see my child;" — an'ei na toflo ton, „the sun 
gets cool now." 

Tof'la, » v. impers. and rel. „get" or „ become easy with-, get 
Toflo, ' better with-, get comfortable with-, get out of danger 
with-" (as with a sick person). It is difficult to give the 
literal sense of this verb in English, where the object becomes 
the subject; e.g. pa toflo-ko, „he gets better" (as a sick 
person), or more lit. „it gets better with him;" — pa tdflg- 

17* 



— 260 — 

mi tenon ro-mera, „I feel easy to day in my mind," lit. 
„it got easy with me to day in the mind." 

Tol, v. a. „burn, set on fire" (as a house, or person); „scald" 
(as hot water one's hand); e. g. 'a tol an-set, „they burned 
the house;" — am'antr ma-fai ma tol ka-tra-ka-mi, „the hot 
water scalded my hand." 

Tgls, v. freq. or intens. a. „set on fire" (as many houses) ; „broil, 
roast on the fire" (not in a pot); „bake" (as bread); e. g. 
ar'afa ra tols e-set be, „the war -people burned all the 
houses;" — tols o-sem, „roast the beef." 

Tofsa, v. freq. or intens. andrel. „set-on fire for- ; broil-for-, roast- 
on the fire for- ; bake-for- ; e. g. toisa-mi o-sem, „roast the 
beef for me." 

Tok, ka-, pi, e-, n. „ fire-wood;" e. g. ma yema wal e-tok-i? 
„doest thou want to buy firewood?" 

Tok, v. a. „ extol, praise;" e.g. 'a tok o-bai, „they extolled the 
king." 

Tokas, ka-, n. verb. „act of praising, praising, praise;" e. g. 
ka-tokas K'uru, „the act of of praising God." 

Toko, adv. „ apart, by itself, separately;" e. g. o yira toko, „he 
lives by himself;" — botr atr'^ntr atse toko, „put these slicks 
separately." 

Toko, » adv. „now, then," = to, and ton; e.g. kone tokon, 

Tokon, ' „go now;" — an-loko na pon toko tas, „the time is 
now passed" or „is now up." The form tokon is used more 
absolutely, or at the end of a proposition. 

Tomo, v. n. „dance"; e. g. ah-fam ha tra lomo ro-petr, „the 
people are dancing in town." 

Tph, adv. = to, „now, then, already;" e.g. der ton, „come now;" 
— ka ka-kal-ka-mi I bap ton ha pon tila ah-wut-'a-mi, „at 
my return 1 found then (that) they had sold my children." 
It is also sometimes used to express the adv. „too, too much," 
as: ra-beha ra bdli ton, „the rope is too long," lit. „the 
rope is long now." Ton is a more abs. form, and also al- 
ways used at the end of a proposition, which is not the case 
with to- Cf. the form to above, and the letter n under N. 



— 261 — 

Ton, a-, pi. e-, n. „a law, commandment;" e. g. e-ton ya K'uru, 
„the commandments of God;" — o-bal o raf a-ton a-fu, „the 
king made a new law." 

Tonka, v. n. „debate a matter, talk a palaver; expostulate, plead 
at the bar, litigate, judge;" e. g. Pa Sori, mfino tonka, „Mr. 
Sori, do thou talk the matter." 

Tonka, v. recipr. ,.implead each other" (at law); „pload with 
each other, have a law-suit," or „go to law with each other, 
debate a case with each other;" e.g. na ko tonka ro ka o- 
bal, „they go to have a law-suit with each other at the 
king's place." 

Tonka, a-, pi. e-, n. „a legal case, a law-suit, a matter" or „case 
to be settled, a case about which they plead at the bar;" e.g. 
Pa Sori de ininan sa ba a-tonka, „Mr. Sori and I have a 
law-suit;" — o-bal o tra rok an-tonka, „the king will settle 
the case." 

Tonkas, v. caus. lit. „make to plead," hence „carry to law, im- 
plead, prosecute by law, give palaver to, sue, litigate with, 
expostulate with-; judge" (as a person, not matters), „try, 
enter into judgment with-;" e. g. o tohkas-mi ka-tsin, „he 
sued me for nothing;" — tse mi tdnkas! „do not enter into 
judgment with me!" 

Tonkla, v. a. „collect, assemble, gather together;" e.g. 'a tonkla 
ey'etr-'e-nan be, „they collected all their things;" — o tonkla 
an-fam na ka ka-petr be, „he assembled the people of the 
whole town." 

Tohklane, v. recipr. or refl. „assemble, gather themselves, troop 
together, meet together;" also „accumulate itself" (as sand); 
e. g. na tohklane tenon, „they met together to day;" — ah- 
fara be na ro-petr ha tohklane rokin, „ all the people of the 
town assembled together." 

Tonto, v. a. „coax, flatter, persuade, entice" iby sweet words); 
„beguile; allure, tempt;" also „soothe, appease" (as a child 
crying); e. g. ha tonto-ko kama kgn' so o ko ri, „they coaxed 
him, that he also might go there;" — o lonto gbo a-fam, „he 
only beguiles people;" — tonto ow'ahet, „soothe the child." 



— 262 — 

Tonto, a-, pi. e-. n. „a trap" or „snare put by sweet and enticing 
words, allurement; any thing given to another for the pur- 
pose to procure his friendship again which was lost by having 
offended him, or in order to induce him to do a thing, or 
to comply with one's wish;" e. g. o botra-mi a-tontg, „he 
put a snare for me." 

Tor, v. n, „come down, go down, descend; set" (as the sun); 
„come away" (as the afterbirth); e. g. w'an, tor! „boy, come 
down!" — o tor ro-gbaii, „he came down the country;" — 
ar'etr ra tor, „the sun set." With ro-bil, „embark", lit. „go 
down into the canoe." Cf. the Hebr. TV Jon. 1, 3. 

-t' 

Tora, v. caus. „make to come down, bring down; let down, send 
down;" e. g. K'uru kono tora k'om, „it is God who sends 
down rain" or „who causes to rain;" — w'an, ko tora am- 
bela, „boy, go let down the sail." Also fig. „ humble, de- 
grade, abase, bring down low;" as: kono tora-ko, „he 
humbled him." 

Torane, v. caus. and refl. orspont. „bring oneself down" or „come 
down of one's own accord;" fig. „humble oneself; come 
down in one's circumstances" or „affairs; be in a low state" 
(as one's body, or as regards outward circumstances). E. g. 
o torane ro-set, w'uni tora he ko, „he came down from the 
house himself, no one brought him down;" — o torane hali, 
„he has come down much in his circumstances." 

Tdroh, ka-, n. „the east, sun-rise;" e. g. o yefa ro-tdron, „he 
came from the East." With the prep, ro- it becomes also 
a prep, or a postp. 

Torori, adj. „eastern"; e. g. a-tof a-toron, „an eastern country." 

Tot, adj. „good, kind, good-natured, gracious;" e. g. w'uni tot, 
„a kind person." 

Tot, o-, adj. but used adverbially, „kindly, well, good;" as ap- 
plied to dying „happily"; e. g. o yo-mi o-tot, „he treated 
me kindly;" — siitne o-tot, „rub thyself well;" — o fi o- 
tot, „he died happily." 

Tot, ma-, n. „kindness, goodness, good nature, graciousness;" 
e. g. o-tem owe o ba ma-tot ma-bana, this old man is very 



— 263 — 

kind" or „very good-natured," lit. „this old man has great 
kindness." 
Tr', pref. indef. andinsep. (for: tra-), „a, an;" e.g. tr'antr, ,.sticks", 
for: tra-antr. 

o o 

Tr', part, (for tra), „let", which see. 

Tr' 'o — ! (for: tre ho — !) or for: tse ho — ! „mind that — 
not — !" do not—!" lit. „not that—!" See Fables p. 52. 

Tra-, pref. indef. „a, an;" e. g. tra-bep, „spoons". It is sing, 
and pi. 

Tra, prep. poss. indef. „of"; e.g. tra-bep-tra-mi, „spoons of mine," 
lit. „spoons of me," = „my spoons." 

Tra, prep, indef. „for, as to, as regards; on account of; etc.," 
e. g. o tasi-mi tra ka-yenk ma-der, lit. „he surpasses me in 
health," = „he is more healthy than I;" — pa yi he tra 
ra-tru o tse bapar, „it is not on account of sickness that 
he was not present." It is the indef. form of tra, which 
see below. 

Tra, pr. subj. indef. „it; they;" e.g. tra-bep-tra-mi tra dinne, 
„spoons of mine are lost." 

Tra, part, to form the Present tense and the Participle with all 
persons in both numbers, excepting the 1 st - pers. sing.; for 
which they use the form t.si, or tri. E. g. o tra der, „he 
is coming;" — o tra sap-mu, „he will flog thee." This part, 
is used if the Future is to be expressed positively, i. e. if 
there is no doubt about the event, which is to take place; 
otherwise they use the forms: ma, me and mo. Cf. the 
examples under the part, ma, 1. 

Tra-, pref. def. „the", = atra-; e. g. tra-bep, or atra-bep, „the 
spoons." 

Tra, prep. poss. def. „of"; e. g. tra-bep-tra-mi, „my spoons," 
lit. „the spoons of me;" — tra-bep tra Sori, „the spoons 
of Sori." 

Tra, prep. = traka, „for, to, in order to; about, concerning, as 
regards, as to; with; on account of, by." It is also used 
as the sign of the Infinitive. E. g. a-fam ria gbali he futi 
tra ma-yos-ma-iiari ma-fino, „men cannot be saved on ac- 



— 264 — 

count of their good works;" — sa ba tra kal so ninan, „we 
have to return again to morrow;" — Yisua o fi tra ah-fam 
be, de tra trannu so, „ Jesus died for all people, and for 
you also." The form traka, which is used, definitely and in- 
definitely is more frequently employed. Tra is the def. form 
of tra which compare, as also traka. See more about this 
prep, in the Grammar. 

Tra, pr. subj. def. „it; they;" e. g. tra-bep tra dinne, „the 
spoons are lost." 

Tra, conj. = tsa, which see. 

Tra, part. „let", used to form the Hortative Mood. When used 
with the pr. o, „he, she" or 'a „they", which is for ha, 
they generally drop the vowel of the part., and contract its 
consonants with the following pr., as tr' o ko di, ..let him 
go eat," or „let him go to eat," lit. „let he go eat," for; 
tra o ko etc.; — tr' 'a dif-ko, „let them kill him," lit. „let 
they kill him," for: tra ha dif-ko; — tra sa ko ro-Kamp, 
„let us go to Freetown." 

Tra, ka-, pi. ma-, n. „a hand; handle;" e. g. ma-tra-m'oh, „his 
hands;" — ka-tra ka am-poti, „the handle of the cup." 

Tr'a (for: trara), „know", which see. This form is used before 
the negative adverbs fe and he, „not", as: I tr'a he tsi, 
„I do not know it." 

Tra-mi, pr. poss. indef. „my", lit. „of me;" e.g. tra-trala-tra- 
mi, „hoes of mine" or „my hoes." 

Tra-mi, pr. poss. def. „my", lit, „of me;" e. g. tra-trala-tra-mi, 
„my hoes," lit. „the hoes of me." 

Tra-mu, pr. poss. indef. „thy", lit. „of thee;" e. g. tra-lrala-tra- 
mu, „hoes of thine," = „thy hoes." 

Tra-mu, pr. poss. def. „thy", lit. „of thee;" e. g. tra-trala-tra- 
mu, „thy hoes," lit. „the hoes of thee." 

Tra-hah, pr. poss. indef. „ their", lit. „of them;" e. g. tra-bep- 
tra-hah, „spoons of theirs," = „their spoons." 

Tra-hah, pr. poss. def. „their", lit. „of them;" e.g. tra-bep- 
tra-hah, „their spoons," lit. „the spoons of them." 



— 265 — 

Tra-nu, pr. poss. indef. „your", lit. „of you;" e.g. tra trala- 

tra-nu, „hoes of yours," = „vour hoes." 
Tra-nu, pr. poss def. „your", lit. „of you;" e.g. tra-trala-tra-nu, 

„your hoes," lit. „the hoes of you." 
Tra-tsi, pr. dem. log. „that, those;" e. g. tra-bep tra-tsi, „those 

spoons" (spoken of before). 
Trak 1 (for: traka), prep, which see. 

Trak, a-, pi. e- or tra-; or sing, o-, pi. tra-, n. „a harnessed ante- 
lope," commonly called ,.deer". 
Trak, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „a staff of authority, a walking staff, a staff;" 
°also° „palaver, matter;" e.g. ka-trak ka-bana, „a great matter." 
Tr'ak, pi. of k'ak, which see. 

Traka, prep. = tra, and tra, which see; „for, for to, to, in 
order to; about, concerning, as to, as regards; on account 
of; with; etc." It is a clef, and an indef. form, and may be 
'used either for: tra or for: tra; but traka is more frequently 
used than either Ira or tra, and like tra it is also used as 
a sign of the Infinitive. E. g. Q fa! o-na o-fet g-bols traka 
Iron, „he killed the fattened ealf for him;" — traka kane 
ma yo ma-pant-e? „for whom doest thou do work?" — am- 
mera-n'on na kira-ko traka atra o poh yo, „his conscience 
troubles him about what he has done" or „on account of 
what he has done;" — ye pa yi traka w'uni 6 w'uni an-lo 
na-tsi, „thus it was with every man that time." 
Note. Before the prefix a- the vowel of the prep, is often 
dropped, as: o pa fo o tas-mi trak' a-fosa, „he says that 
he is stronger than I," lit. „he says that he surpasses me 
as regards strength." 
Traka 'ra-bomp ra — , „for the sake of - , on account of — ," 
lit, „for the head of—;" e.g. ma yema dim aka-petr be 
traka 'ra-bomp ra ka-pah ka a-fam tramat-i? „wilt thou 
destroy the whole town on account of the lake of five per- 
sons?" 
Traka tsi, therefore, wherefore, for this reason," lit. „for it" 
or „on account of it;" e. g. ma ta poh he ram ak'ota; traka 
tsi I gbali he mu ki son, or 1 gbali he som-mu-ki, „thou 



— 266 — 

hast not yet paid for the cloth; therefore I cannot give it 
to thee." 

Tral, v. n. „hear; understand; obey;" e. g. ma tral mo ow'6r o 
som ak'aro-i? „doest thou hear how the rat nibbles the bowl?" 
— I tral o-flno, „1 understand well;" — ow'an owe o tral 
he ko-ko, „this boy does not obey at all." 

Tral, v. a. „hear; understand; obey; listen to, hearken to;" e. g. 
ow'an owe o tral he ar'im-ra-mi, „this child does not hear" 
or „ list en to my word;" — o tral he mi, „he does not obey 
me;" — an-fet aue na tral ar'im ra o-kas-ka-hah loko 6 loko, 
„these children always hear (obey) the word of their father." 
This form is not used with a personal object, except in ne- 
gative propositions; if there is a personal object in positive 
propositions the form trala is used, which see. 

Tral, o-, pi. a-, n. „a hearer, one hearing;" e. g. kere tse na 
gbo yi a-tral; kere yi na so a-yo ha atra na tral, „but be 
ye not hearers only; but be ye also doers of what ye hear." 

Tral, adv. spec. „quite, altogether;" it is used with tsih, „be 
naked," and with the noun ka-tsin, as used adverbially in 
the sense of „for nothing, in vain, without cause;" e. g. 
o-bera owe o tsih tral, „lhis woman is quite naked;" — na 
ramne gbo ka-tsih tral, ,.ye pray but in vain altogether." 

Trala, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „a country hoe, a hoe;" e. g. ka-trala 
ka-boli, „a long hoe." 

Trala, v. a. „hear, hearken to, listen to, obey;" e. g. ma trala 
am-bamp-i? „doest thou hear the bird?" — ow'an-ka-mi o 
trala ar'im-ra-mi, „my child listens to my word;" — o trala 
he ko, „he does not obey him." Also „feel" (as a smell, 
or scent); see next word. Cf. also tral, v. a. above. 

Trala am-bontr ha-, „get the scent of-, come upon the track 
of-" (as a dog upon the track of something lost, or of a 
person), lit, „feel the scent of-;" e. g. be an-lran o trala 
am-bontr-h'oh, ro o ko be, tra trah-ko, „if the dog gets 
the scent of him, wherever he goes to, he will follow him." 

Trala i-bontr, „feel a smell" or „scent"; e.g. I trala i-bontr 
i-fino, I feel a good smell." 



— 267 — 

Trala w'iini i-bontr, „feel a smell on one;" e. g. na trala he 
ko i-bontr na an'antr, „they did not feel a smell of the fire 
on him." 

Tralne, v. refl. a. „feel" (as pain etc.); e. g. 1 tralne r'a ra-las 
ka ka-tra-ka-mi, „I feel something bad on my hand;" lit. 
„hear' or „feel oneself." 

Tralne d'or, „feel hungry;" e. g. o tralne d'or, „he felt hungry ;" 
lit. „feel hunger." 

Tralpe, v. n. „jump down, light down, come down; step, go, 
jump;" e. g. am-bamp o tralpe ro-tof, „the bird lighted down 
on the ground;" — o-lahba o tralpe ro-mantr, „the young 
man jumped (down) into the water." It is also applied to 
the lightning, or rather to the thunder, when striking into 
a house; because the Temnes believe that it is the thunder 
which comes down. 

Tram, euph. form of trah, „follow", used before m, as: o tram- 
mi, „he follows me." See trah. 

Tram, v. a. „publish, give public notice of-, inform of-, make 
known, proclaim" (as a law); „tell" (as tales); e.g. ko tram- 
tsi ro-petr be, „go publish it in the whole town;" — o 
tram-tsi ka an-fam be, „he gave notice of it to all the people;" 

— o tram-ko, „he made him known;" — man der nan tram 
m'ump, „come let us tell tales." 

Trama, v. n. „stand; be." As an aux. it serves to express the 
English „be about, be on the point," to exercise the energy, 
denoted by the principal verb, which follows in the long form 
of the Infinitive. E. g. o-tem o trama ri ro-set, „the old 
man stands there in the house;" — o trama tsin, „he is 
naked;" — o-bera o trama traka fi, „the woman is on the 
point of death," lit. „ - stands to die" or „is about to die;" 

— o trama o-fino, ,,he is well off." — Also „stop" (as one 
walking); „stay, live" (as at a plaee); e. g. r'im ra tsela-ko: 
Trama! „a voice called to him: Stop!" — o trama ras ro- 
Bake Loko, „he still stays at Port Loko." 

Trama, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „attitude, posture; state, condition; 
situation, place, lot; independence; estate, dwelling; etc.;" 



— 268 — 

e.g. ma-trama-m'oh ma tesa he, „his attitude does not please" 
or „is not agreeable;" — o ba ma-trama ma-fino, „he is 
well off," lit. „he has a good condition;" — ma-trama-m'oh 
ma yi ro-tsen' dokom, „his estate is on the top of the hill." 
The sing, is seldom used; a«: ahai-trama-h'oh ha tesa he, = 
ma-tr§ma-m'gh ma tesa he. 

Trama kadi, = trama rodi, „stand before" or „ beyond, go be- 
fore, walk before, be ahead, be first, precede" (as to space 
or time), „lead the way, place oneself at the head;" also 
„be contrary" or unfavourable" (as wind): e. g. k'in ka tra- 
lome, Qwo trama kadi, etc., „one of the sheep which led the 
way, etc.;" — ah-fef ha trama k§di, „the wind is contrary." 

Trama rayer, „ stand near, stand close by, stand aside;" e. g. 
o-wontr-k'oh o trama rayer, „his brother stood close by." 

Trama rodi, = trama kadi, which see; e. g. o trama rodi ka 
ka-rare, „he stood before the door." 

Trama rokah, stand without;" e.g. o-tem o trama rokah, „the 
old man stands without." 

Tr§ma w'uni kadi, = trama w'Qni rodi, „ stand before one" or 
,,beyond one, go" or „walk before one, be at the head of 
one, be in front of one, precede one" (in distance or time); 
also „be in one's way, oppose one;" as applied to wind 
„be contrary to one, be against one." E. g. kono trama- 
ha kadi, „he goes before them;" — Be Foki o trama Ali- 
kali Morba kadi, „Bey Foki preceded Alikali Morba;" — 
o-lahba owe o trama-mi kadi, I gb§li he sdto r'aka, „this 
young man is in my way, I cannot get any thing;" — ah- 
fef ha trama-su kadi tenon, „the wind is against us to day." 

Trama w'uni rayer, „sland close to one, stand near (to) one;" 
e. g. o-tem o trama-mi rayer, „the old man stands close 
to me." 

Trama w'Qni rodi, = trama w'Qni kadi, which see. 

Trama w'uni rorarah, „stand behind one," hence „defend, take 
one's part, plead one's cause, back;" e. g. o-bal o trama-ko 
rorarah, „the king takes his part." 

Tramar, v. caus. „make to stand, set up, raise" (as a house of 



— 269 — 

timber); „place, put, put up; make;" e.g. tramar ak'antr, 
„set up the post;" tramar ka-tuli ro-bil, „put up the mast 
in the canoe;" — ko tramar am-poti ka- am-mesa, „go put 
the cup on the table;" — o tramar ow'ahet tsin, „he made 
the child naked." 

Tr&mar, v. rel. (rad. tram), „proclaim-to-, make-known to-, publish- 
to-; acquaint- with-, in form- about-; e. g. an-tetu o tramar ari- 
fam ara-kel, „the messenger made known the theft to the 
people." 

Tr&mas, v. freq. or intens. a. „proclaim, make known, publish- 
all about; „e. g. o-bai q trainas an-ton ka an-fam-n'on be, 
„the king proclaimed the law to all his subjects," lit. 
„to all his people." 

Tramat, adj. num. „five;" e. g. a-fam tramat, „five persons." 

Tramat de ran „seven," lit. „five and two;" e. g. a-fam tramat 
de ran, „ seven persons." 

Tramat re sas, „eight," lit. „five and (with) three;" e. g. tra-bep 
tramat re sas, „ eight spoons." 

Tramat ro kin, „six," lit. „five to one;" e. g. e-gbata tramat 
ro kin, „six mats." 

Tramat ro ft'anle, » „nine," lit „five to four;" e. g. e-tis tramat 

Tramat ro ii'aftle, ' ro ii'anle, „nine knives." 

Tramtramne, v. refl. a. „medidate upon-, think about-, reflect 
upon-, muse upon-, consider of-;" e. g. o tramtramne atr'ei 
tra-tsi, tro an-ndne-na-tsi na yi-e, „he thought about that 
thing, what l he meaning of it might be." 

Tran, a-, pi. e-, n. „a dog;" e. g. a-tran a-bana, „a large dog." 

Tran', euph. form of trail, v. n. „follow," which see. It is used 
before d and n; e. g. I tsi tran'-nu, „I shall follow you," 
See another example under talom. 

Tran v. n. „follow; pass, go;" e.g. o tran rordraii, „he followed 
from behind;" — o tran fe ro-r'on, „he did not pass in 
the road." 

Trail, v. a. „follow, go after-, follow after-," also „pass, go upon-; 
follow up-, trace;" e. g. I traii-ko ro-r'oii, „I followed him 
in the road;" — o traii-iia ro-Bake-Loko, „he followed them 



— 270 — 

to PortLoko;" — o Iran ar'oh are, „he passed this road;" 
— I (si trah atr'ei tra-tsi , „I shall follow up that matter." 
It has the euph. or abbr. forms tram and tran', which see in 
loco. 

Tran, v. a. „lock," (as a door); „fasten-with a nail, nail" (as a 
board);" drive in," (as a nail); „make costive," (as medicine 
the bowels); „tell, pledge," (as a word); „pledge-lo-," (as a 
word to one); see the two next words. E. g. Iran aka-rare, 
„lock the door;" — o poh tran am-bil, „he has nailed the 
canoe." 

Trail r'im, „make a promise," lit „pledge a word;" e. g. o tral 
fo o-bai o poh trah r'im, fo w'iini 6 w'uni owo mo dif o- 
lahba, o tra nantra ow'an-k*oh o-bera, „he heard that the 
king had made a promise, that whosoever kills the man, 
shall have his daughter to wife." 

Trail w'uni r'im, „make a promise to one;" e.g. o trah-mi r'im 
traka ah-kala, „he made me a promise about the money." 

Trahane, v. caus. and refl. lit. „make oneself to follow after," 
hence „folIow up-, go after-," (as after the scent of a thing); 
„trace, track;" also „hold to-, keep to-," (as to one's word, or 
to a road), hence ,, fulfil; follow after-, follow, do according-; 
imitate, follow the habits of-;" e. g. o trahane ar'im-r'oh, 
„he held to his promise;" — o trahane 'ma-ni ma o-kas- 
k'oh, „he followed the footsteps of his father;" — tse 
trahane o-kas-ka-mu, „do not imitate thy father." See 
also next word. 

Trahane am-bontr ha-, „follow the scent of-, follow the track 
of-;" e. g. an-tran o trahane am-bontr ha ow'or, „the dog 
followed the track of the fillentamba." 

Trand, v. abr. a. (rad. trah), „chain, fetter, put-in chains;" e. g. 
o-bal o trand-ko, „the king chained him." 

Trand, v. abr. a. (rad. trah) „follow, follow^ after-; resemble, 
be like to" (as one to another in character, or otherwise); 
e. g. o trand-ko, „he followed after him." 

Trando, adj. succeeding, following, second;" e. g. ka ah-rei a- 
trando, „on the following day." 



— 271 — 

Trahk, a-, pi. e-, n. „a species of anteater" or „antbear," living 
principally on the termites. It is of the size of a goat, with 
a long small mouth, long claws, and lives in holes under 
the earth. It has no teeth. 

Trahk, o-, n. „a cold, coldness" (as of water); „freshness, green- 
ness," (as of a tree or leaf); also „an ague;" e.g. o-trahk 
wa am'antr, „the coldness of the water;" — o-trahk o wop- 
mi, „I got an ague fit;" — o-trank o wop-ko na tratrak, 
„he got a cold last night." Also „rawness" (as of meat). 

Trahk, v. n. „be silent;" e. g. trahk nan! „be ye silent!" 

Tr'anle, j adj. num. „four;" e. g. tra-trala tr'anle, „four hoes;" 

Tr'ahle, — tr'antr tranle, „four sticks;" — tra-gba tranle, 
„four scores" = 80. 

Trahh, adv. spec. „steadily, attentively, indeed." It indicates 
continuance, and is used with kali, „look at-, look; be alive;" 
e. g. o kali-mi trahh, „he looked steadily at me;" — sa 
nah'-ko o-kali trahh, „we saw him alive indeed." 

Trahhah, pr. comp. „for them; about them; against them; etc.;" 
It is always preceded by: tra, or traka. E. g. o fa! o-na 
traka trahhah, „he killed a cow for^them." 

Trannu, pr. comp. ,.for you; about you; against you; etc." It 
is always preceded by: tra or traka; e. g. tra trannu taho o 
dif o-na, „it is not for you" or „on account of you (that) 
he killed the cow." 

Tr'antr. pi. of k'antr, which see. 

Trap, v. n. „begin, commence;" e. g. 'a la trap he tra rok, „they 
did not yet begin to reap;" — o ta trap he, „he did not 
yet begin." — It is often used as an aux. to indicate the 
commencement of an action, or of the exercise of the energy, 
denoted by the principal verb, which follows in the long 
form of the Infinitive; or the aux. may also he construed 
with the verbal noun; as: o trap ka-gbal ah-reka, = o trap 
tra gbal ah-reka , „he began to write the letter," lit. „he b. 
writing the letter;" — o trap ka-pah r'aka, „he began to 
be in want," lit „he began to lack a thing." 

Trap, v. a. „begin, commence;" also „invent;" e. g. q trap ka- 



— 272 — 

yo ma-pant, lit. „he began the doing (of) work," = „he began 
with the work;" — kono trap ka-sal e-bol , „he invented 
the making of earthen pots." When trap v. n., as an aux., is 
construed with the verb, noun, it might also he considered 
as a transitive form, and as belonging here. 
Trap, ka-, pi. tra-. n. „ beginning, commencement;" also „fashion, 
manner; sort, kind, species;" e. g. „ka ka-trap ka 'ra-ru are, 
„at the beginning of this world;" — o kuta pa-la mo ka- 
trap ka-fu, „he plants rice according to a new fashion;" 
— o ba e-bamp ka tra-trap tra-gbante, „he has birds of 
various species." 
Trap, v. a. „chop, wound;" also „fell," (as a tree); „chop" or 
wound-wilh-;" e. g. o trap-mi, „he chopped me;" — 'a trap- 
ko a-gbato, „they wounded him with a cutlass; — o trap 
n'antr, „he fell a tree." 
Trapa, v. rel. „chop" or „wound- for-; chop" or „wound-with-; 
fell-for-; fell- with- ;" e.g. o trapa-mi a-gbato, „he cut me 
with a cutlass;" - trapa-mi ah'antr ane, „fell this tree for 
me;" — trapa-mi-ko, „chop him for me." Also used with one 
Ace. in the. sense qj „chop" or „cut with-," as: 'a trapa 
ka-bap ka tra-sak, „they cut the ribs with a hatchet," lit. 
„they cut with a hatchet at the ribs." 
Trapi v. a. „create, begin; be the author of-, make -from the 
first; also „invent, contrive, beget," (of the male); e. g. 
K'uru kono trapi at'ruru de an-tof, „it is God who created 
the heavens and the earth;" — Pa Sori kono trapi-mi, „Mr. 
Sori he begat me." It is the long form of trap. 
Trapi ka-fi, „be the author of death," lit. „begin dying;" e. g. 

kono trapi ka-fi, „he became the author of death." 
Trapi, ka-, n. „act of creating (a thing, or person), creation;'* 
e. g. ka-trapi ara-ru are, „the creation of this world," lit. 
„the creating this world." 
Trapia, v. rel. „create-for-; create-with-;" e.g. ara-ru are K'uru 
o trapia-ri ar'im-r'on, „as for this world God created it by 
his word." 



— 273 — - 

Trar, o-, pi. a-, n. „a slave;" e. g. o wai a-trar na-ran, „he bought 
two slaves;" — o-trar o-runi, „a male slave." 

Trar, ra- n. „slavery, bondage;" e.g. o won ra-trar, „he got 
into slavery. 

Trar o-bera, o-, pi. a-trar a-bera, „a female slave." 

Tr'ar, pi. of k'ar, which see. 

Trara, v. n. „knnw, understand; be acquainted;" e. g. o trara 
o-fino, „he understands well;" — o trara ro-petr, „he is ac- 
quainted in town." It is often used as an aux. to indicate 
skill in the exercise of the energy, denoted by the principal 
verb, which follows in the short form of the Infinitive, 
as: o-bera o tra'ra yak, „the woman understands washing," 
or „ knows to wash clothes;" — o-lanba owe o trara tak'sa, 
„this young man can teach well," lit. „— — understands 
teaching," or „to teach." With negative propositions the 
contr. form tr'a is used, as: o tr'a he taksa, „he does not 
understand to teach." Cf. also tr'a above. 

Trara, v. a. „know , understand, be acquainted with; be aware 
of-; e.g. „1 trara-ko o-fino, „1 am well acquainted with 
him;" — o Irara-tsi, „he knows it;" — ma trara am'olo 
ma ak'6ta-i? „doest thou know the price of the cloth?" — 
o tr'a he tr'el 6 tr'el, „he knows nothing at all;" — I trara 
ka-ramne o-fino, „I understand the prayer well." Cf. 

the preceding word about the contr. form tr'a. 

Trara, ka-, n. verb. „ faculty of knowing, knowledge:" ka-trara- 

k'ori, „his knowledge." 
Trara-tr'ei, v. comp. u. „be learned, he accomplished, be clever;" 

e. g. ow'uni owe o trara-tr'ei, „lhis person is learned." 
Trara w'dni r'aka, „eare for one, regard one, treat one accor- 
ding to rank" or „circumstances," lit. „know something for 
one;" e.g. o-lanba owe o tr'a he w'lini r'aka. „this voung 
man does not care for a person. - ' 
Trasam, v. onom. n. „sneeze;" e. g. o tra trasam, „he is sneezing." 
Trasam-trasam, v. onom. freq. or miens, n. „ sneeze much, sneeze 

o o o o T 

repeatedly;" e. g. o-tem o tra trasam-trasam, „ Ui e old man 
was sneezing repeatedly." 

Temne - Worterbuch. 18 



— 274 — 

Trassu, pr. comp. ,,for us, about us; on account of us; against 
us; etc." It is always followed by tra, or traka. E. g. 
Yisua o fi tra tr&ssu be, „ Jesus died for all of us," or „for 
us all." 

Tratrak, n. „ night;" adverbially „at night, in the night;" e. g. 
ts61a-mi tratrak, „he called me at night;" — I dira he 
na tratrak, „1 did nol sleep last night." Its prefix is ka-, 
but it is seldom used. See more about this form in the 
Grammar. 

Tr'atrak, pi. of k'atrak, which see. 

Tratsen, adj. „true; righteous, just ;" e.g. an-tralsen, „the righ- 
teous." It is properly the noun tra-tsen, „truth," but used as 
an adj., the pref. c*f the noun being taken as a radical part of 
the word, (when used adjectively), which is sometimes the case. 

Tre, = tse, adv. „not, do not." See tse; and cf. the Note 
after kotsi. 

Tr'ei, pi. ma-trel, n. „a thing, matter, palaver, case; trouble, harm;" 
e. g. atr'el atse, „this matter;" — tr'ei tra yi he „there is no 
palaver;" — tra ba he tr'ei, „it does not matter," = „it 
is of no consequence;" — ma-trel ma no-ru, „the things 
of this world." — See also: won' do-trel. It is sometimes 
also used in the sense of „character," especially in the pi. 
This word has an insep. pref. in the sing., and a separable 
one in the pi. , the insep. pref. of the sing, being taken as 
radical in the plural. 

Trel, v. a. „leave, abandon, forsake; leave off, desist from;" e. g. 
ar'afa ra trel an-raka tenon tra ko tsim, „the war-people left 
the camp to day to go to war;" — ow'dni owe o pon trel q- 
r&ni-k'on, „this man has left his wife; — o trel ka-sap 
ow'ahet, „he desisted from flogging the child." Also „leave 
behind," (as property); „cede; etc.;" as: tse trel am-pihkar- 
'a-mu, „do not leave thy gun behind." 

Tr'ei 6 tr'ei, „any thing, everything; any matter; only trouble, 
nothing but trouble;" with a negative „not any thing, not 
any matter;" e.g. o-lanba owe o trara tr'ei 6 tr'ei, „this 
young man knows every thing;" — tra ba he tr'ei 6 tr'ei, „it 



— 275 — 

does not matter at all." — See also: bene w'llni ra-tr'ei 
6 tr'el. 
Tr'el tra-las, „sin;" also „danger;" lit. „a bad thing," or some- 
thing bad" ; e. g. trel tra-las tra yi he ri, „there is no danger 
there;" — o yo tr'el tra-las, „he committed sin." 
TV erne, pi. of k'erne, which see. 
Tr'eme tramat re sas, „eight hundred;" e. g. tra-ren tr'eme 

tramat re sas, „ eight hundred years." 
Treme tramat ro k'in, „six hundred." 
Tr'ere, pi. of k'ere, which see. 

Tri, pr. obj. for: tsi, which see, CI. the Note after kotsi. 
Trl', pr. emph. abbr. „it, this; these" for: tria; e. g. tra-bep atra 
ma yema tsia-tse-i? De, tri' taho; „are these the spoons 
which thou doest want?" „No, not these." 
Tro? adv. inter. „how? of what kind? how much? how many?" 
e. g. tro sa ma yo-e? „ho\v are we to do?" — tro na yi-e? 
„how many are ye?" 
Tro? pr. inter. „what?" e. g. tro som o pa yan-e? „what is 
the cause (that) he says so?" or „what is the cause (that) 
he speaks thus?" — tro ma nane? „what doest thou think?" 
Tro, ka-, pi. tra-, n. verb. „act of heating rice (in a mortar);" 
e.g. ah-loko ka-tro, „the time of beating rice (for supper)." 
(which is done from 4 — 6 o'clock P. M. , hence also „the 
time from 4—6 o'clock." The pi. form of ka-tro is used 
of a plurality of places, where rice is beaten. 
Tio pe-e? for: tro pa yi-e? „how is it?" or ,.what news?" or 
also „how art thou?" = tro pe mu-e? Cf. Colloq. Phras. p. 
105. See next word. 
Tro pe mu-e? for: tro pa yi-mu-e? „how art thou?" or „how 

is it with thee?" Cf. Colloq. Phras. p. 105. 
Trofatr, adj. num. „ten;" e. g. a-fam trofalr. „ten persons." 
Trofatr n'in, „eleven;" e. g. ma-sar trofatr h'in, „eleven 

stones." 
Troko, a-, pi. e-, n. „afowl;" e.g. a-troko a-bana, „a large 

fowl." 
Trol, v. a. „rear," (as cattle); „tend, mind, attend to. take care 

18* 



— 276 — 

of," (as of cattle, or also of men) ; e. g. o trgl e-trokg, „he 
rears up fowls;" — o-bal o trol tra-na-tr'gh o-fino, „the 
king minds his cows well;" — K'riru o trol-mi, „God takes 
care of me." 

Trol, adj. „reared, reared up." (as cattle); „tended, minded, 
taken care of;" e. g. y'etr e-trol, „things reared up," — 
„ small cattle." 

Trol, o-, pi. a-, n. „one tending cattle, herd's man, shepherd;" 
e. g. o-trol ka o-bal, „the herd's man of the king." 

Troh adj. „ clever, skilful:" e. g. w'uni trol, „a clever person," 
= „an artisan." 

Trol a-, pi. e-, n. „medicine;" also „ charm, amulet, country- 
medicine;" — e. g. o di e-trol, „he took medicine;" — 
o sekne a-trol, „he tied a charm round himself." 

Trom, v. n. ruminate, chew the cud;" e.g. ow'ir o Ira trgm, 
„the goat is ruminating." 

Tr'oh, pr. poss.. „his, her," lit. .,of him, of her;" e. g. tra-bep- 
tr'on, „his spoons." 

Tron, ka-, pi. tra , n. „middle, midst, centre; trunk of the body, 
waist;" e. g. ka-tron ka ka-petr, „the middle of the town;" 
— ka-tron-k'oh , „his waist." With the prep, ra-, it be- 
comes a prep, or a postp. — See ratroh, prep. 

Troh, pr. „him, her," this form is used after tra or tr&ka, as: 
o fal o-na traka troh, „he slaughtered a cow for him." 

Trgh ka — , ka-, used as a prep., see ka-troh ka — , undej K. 

Trond, v. abr. a. „cook for-," (as for a krifi, or for the dead, 
being considered as a sacrifice); e. g. 'a kg trond g-krifi, 
„they goto cook for the krifi." 

Trohkar, v. rel. (rad. trohk), „abscond with-, run away to-, flee 
to-, take refuge with-;" e.g. o-trar o trohkar Pa Sori, „the 
slave absconded with Mr. Sori." 

Trohkar, v. rel. n. „abscond, run away:" e.g. g-trar g trohkar 
kag-bal, „the slave run away to the king." With this form 
the suff. is rather redundant. 

Trori, v. a. „show, inform; show-to- inform- of-;" e. g. I kg 
trori-mu ar'oh, „I go to show thee the road;" — an-tetu 



— 277 — 

o trdri-mi atra o-bai Q kane-ko. »the messenger informed 

me of what the king told him;" — w'Qni lorn o tron'-mi, 

fg o-bai o poh fi, „some person informed me, that the king 

has died." 
Trdtroko, adj. „first," e. g. an-rei a-trotroko, „the first day;" 

— an-fam a-trdtroko, „the first people." 
Tru, v. n. „be sick, be ill;" e. g. Pa Sori Q tru. „Mr. Sori 

is sick." 
Tru, ra- pi. tra, n. „sickness, illness;" e. g. ra-trfi ra-baki ra 

wop-ko, „°he is very ill," lit. „a heavy sickness holds 

him." 

Tru k'or, „have the menses;" e. g. o-bera o tru k'or, „the wo- 
man has the menses." 

Trui, v. impers. „be hard, be difficult;" e. g. pa tru! he tra yO 
atr'el atse, „it will not be hard to do this thing." 

Trutr'ka-, pi. tra-, n. „envy, jealousy," e. g o ba ka-trutr 
traka o-rani-k'on , „he is jealous on account of his wife," 

o — 

lit. „he has jealousy on account of his wife." 
Ts', pref. indef. and insep. for: tr'; see the Note after kdtsi. It 

is an insep. form of: tr.i-; e.g. ts'ek. „beards," = tr'ek, 

for: tra-ek. 
Tsa, conj = tra, „for, because;" e. g. K'firu o gbali su nank, 

tsa o yi d'er 6 d'er, „God can see us; for he is everywhere." 

— I nesa, tsa min' tsih, „I was afraid, for I am naked." 

See the Note after kotsi. 
Tse, adv. = tre, „not, do not." Often used with the Imperative; 

as: tse tsi yo, „do not do it;" — tse fatr ri, or: tse ri 

fatr, „do not approach there;" — tse fatr-na. „do not go 

near to them;" — tr' 'a tse ko bene ro-petr, Jet them not 

bury him in the town." 
Tig-wop ar'im ra-, ka-, „the not holding (obeying) the word 

of-;" e. g K'uru o tra sompa-nu traka ka-tse-wop ar'im- 

r'oh, „God will punish you for not obeying his word." 
Tsel, adj. „not related, strange, foreign, other;" e. g. a-fam a-lsel 

de ah-fam-h'oh gbeh ha botar he ko, „st range people and 



— 278 — 

his own people do not like him;" — k'antr ka-tsel, „a 
foreign language." 

Tsela, v. a. „call, invite;" e. g. ko tsela am-bol-'a-mu, „go call 
thy servant." Also „hail," as: ah-fam aiian ha tra tsela-su, 
„tbose people are hailing us;" also „name," e. g. 'a tsela- 
ko Sori, „they called him Sori." 

Tsemp, v. n. „get wise, get intelligent, get sense, get prudent; 
get sober; be wise, be intelligent, etc.;" e. g. o-lauba owe o 
ta tsemp he, „this young man has not yet got wise;" — 
mono ma tsemp he, „thou hast no sense." It is the short 
form of tsempi. Cf. the Note after wos, v. n. 

Tsemp, ka-, n. „wisdom, intelligence, prudence, sense; discretion; 
soberness;" e. g. Yisua o tak'sa a-fam ka-tsemp ka-bana, 
„Jesus taught people with great wisdom;" — ow'uni owe 
o ba ka-tsemp, „this person has intelligence." 

Tsempi, v. n. „be wise, be prudent, be intelligent, be discreet, 
have sense; be sober;" e. g. o-tem owe o tsempi, „this old 
man is wise;" — o-lanba owe o tsempi so, „this young 
man is sober again." 

Tsempi, adj. „wise, prudent, intelligent; sober;" e. g.w'uni tsempi, 
„a wise person." It may follow a proper name without 
a prefix, in which case it is emphatic, and may be given 
by „the Wise," as: Be Foki Tsempi, „Bey Foki the Wise." 
Cf. Proverb 3, p. 99. 

Tsen, v. a. „cut up" (as an animal slaughtered), „cut, carve" (as a 
fowl), lit. „separate the joints of-," (as butchers do with 
cattle slaughtered);" e. g. 'a poh tsen o-na, „lhey have cut 
up the cow." 

Tsen, tra-, n. „trulh, veracity; justice." Also used adverbially 
in the sense of „indeed f truly, in truth." E. g. atra-tseh 
tra am-pa-h'oh, „the truth of his statement;" — ow'uni 
owe o ba ka-tsemp tra-tseh! „this person has sense indeed!" 

Tsen', ka-, pi. tra-, n. for: tsen; this form is used before d. 
See next word. 

Tsen, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „a hill;" e. g. o yi ro-tsen' dokdm, „he 
is on the top of the hill;" — ka-tsen ka-lol, „a little hill." 



— 279 — 

Tsentsene, adv. „indeed, truly, surely;" e. g. „q tra dcr tentsene, 
„he will surely come." 

Tsep, v. a. „ plant;" e. g. I tsi tsep ri y'intr," „1 shall plant 
trees there." 

Ts'er, pi. of w'er, which see. 

Tser, v. a. „let go, let, dismiss, let loose; forgive; allow, per- 
mit;" e. g. tser-ko, „let him go;" — o-bal o tser an-fam, „the 
king dismissed the people;" — I tser-mu a-mera ffuo, „I 
forgive thee with all my heart," lit. „ — -~ with a good 
heart;" — tser an-tis, w'an! „let go the knife, boy!" 

Tsera, v. rel. „let go- for-; remit- to-" (as a debt to one); „for- 
give- to-;" e. g. tsera-mi an-tis, wan! „let go the knife for 
me, boy!" — o-tem o tsera-mi atrei tra-las, atra I yo-ko, 
„the old man forgave me the evil thing, which I did to him;" 
— I tsera-ko ara-be!-r'on, „I remitted him his debt." 

Tsi, part. = tri, to form the Participle, and the Future tense 
in the 1 st - pers, sing. — E. g. I tsi der romu ninari, „I shall 
come to thee to morrow." Cf. the Note after kotsi, as also 
what has been stated under the part, tra; because what has 
been said there, applies also to this form. 

Tsi, pr. sub. and obj. = tri, „it; these; they, them;" e. g. 
alr'anlr kara-tsi and, „as for the sticks bring them here." 

Tsia, v. n. „remain, stay; be left;" e. g. o tsia ro-Ma-Ial, „he 
remained at Malal;" — o-tem o tsia ri son, „the old man 
was left there alone;" — ma-rei ma-sas ma tsia gbo, „only 
three days remained;" — na tra tsia nan ka-raran-ka-tsi 
mo ho ma na yi tapan, „they would remain afterwards as 
they were before." 

Tsia, v. a. „leave, let remain, spare;" e. g. pa-la apa an-fam na 
pon tsia, „the rice which the people have left;" — an-fam 
na tsia a-kala a-gbali ro-sel, „the people have left much 
money in the house" (for themselves). 

Tsia, v. rel. „leave, leave-to-, bequeath-to-;" e. g. ma-tdfal mia 
I tsia-nu, „peace I leave to you;" — o-kas-ka-mi q tsia- 
mi gbo a-kala a-tan, „my father left me but little money;" 



— 280 — 

— o-tem o tsia-mi k'e ka-bana, „the old man left me a 
large properly." 

Tsia, pr. emph. „it, this; (hey, them, these;" tra-bep-tra-mi tsia 
yi tsi, „these are my spoons," lit. = the Germ. „Meine 
Loffel diese sind es." 

Tsia ba, „therefore, for this reason, this is the reason," lit. „it 
has," or „this has;" e. g. ra-bomp-ra-mi ra ban -mi; tsia ba 
ma narik fe mi tenon, „my head pained me; this is the 
reason (that) thou didst not see me to day." 

Tsia ba tsi, therefore, this is the reason," lit. „it (this) has it;" 
e. g. ow'ahet-k'on o lasar apa-la; tsia ba-tsi o bari'sa, „his 
child spoiled the rice; this is the reason (that) he got angry." 

Tsian, conj. therefore, for this reason, this is the reason," lit. 
„it, „or"this." It is prop* rly the alis. form of the pr. tsi, „it." 
E. g. ow'an o pon yo tr'el tra-las; tsian o mafikne, „the 
hoy has done something bad; therefore he hides himself." 

Tsik. 0-, pi. a-, n. „a male stranger, pilgrim, guest;" e.g. o-tsik 
o der romi tenon, „a stranger came to me to day." 

Tsik. ra-, pi. tra-. n. „state of being a stranger, strangership , 
sojourn, pilgrimage;" e. g. ra tsik-r'ori ro-Kamp, „his sojourn 
at Freetown." 

Tsim, v. n. „war, fight, strive, struggle;" e.g. o ko tsim, „he 
went to war;" - o tra tsim ri, „he is fighting there." It 
is, however, more frequently used in a recipr. sense, „ fight 
together, war against each other, wage war against each 
other, strive together;" c. g. tsia som na tsim, „this is the 
reason they carry on war with each other;" — na tsim- ri 
ma-rei ma-ran, „they fought there for two days." 

Tsim, v. a. „fight with-; war against-, wage war against-, invade;" 
e. g. I ko tsim-ko, „I go to fight with him;" — ah-fam na 
tsim-ko, ., the people fought against him;" — Alikali Fatima 
Brema q tsim an-tof a-loko, „AlikaIi Fatima Brema waged 
war against the Loko country." 

Tsim, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „war, fight, battle, combat;" e. g. 'a tsim 
ri ka-tsim ka-baki, „they fought a great battle there;" — 



— 281 — 

fi ka ka-tsim, „he died in the battle," — 'a tam'ro ka- 
tsim, „they lost the battle." 

Tsima, adj. „belonging to fighting" or „to war;" e. g. y'etr e- 
tsima, „arms," or „ war-implements," lit. „things belonging 
to war." 

Tsimne, v. refl. lit. „fight with oneself," hence: „struggle, ago- 
nize," (as a dying person); fig. „exeri oneself much, try 
hard;" e. g. o tsimne tra sdto pa la, „he exerted himself much 
to get rice." Also used in a recipr. sense „compete" or 
„contend with each other, "as: 'a tsimne traka o-bera, „they 
contend with each other about the woman." 

Tsimone, v. rel. and refl., or v. spont. lit. „fight for oneself," 
or „ fight of one's own accord," hence „make haste, hasten, 
be quick;" e. g. tsimone, kdma ma kone, „make haste that 
thou may est go;" — o tsimone traka kalane, „he hastened 
to return." 

Tsin, v. n. „be naked," (as the body); „be bare,-' (as the head); 
„be empty," (as a bottle); e. g. ra-bomp-r'on ra tsin, „his 
head is bare;" am-bitra na tsin, „the bottle is empty." 

Tsin, adj. „naked; bare; empty;" e.g. ra-bomp ra-tsiri, „a bare 
head; a-bitra a-tsiri, „an empty bottle." 

Tsin, ka-, n. „emptiness." It is often used adverbially in the 
sense of „for nothing, without cause, in vain; gratis." E. g. 
ka-tsin ka am-bitra, „the emptiness of the bottle;" o yo- 
tsi gbo ka-tsiri, „he did it just for nothing;" — I gbali he 
som-mu-rii ka-tsin, „I cannot give it to thee gratis." 

Tsir, ma-, n. „blood;" e. g. ma-tsii ma wur-ko, „he bleeds," 
lit, „blood comes out from him." 

Tsis, v. n. „be drunken, be intoxicated;" e. g. ow'Uni owe o 
tsis, „this person is drunken." 

Tsis, adj. „drunken, intoxicated;" e. g. w'iini tsis, „an intoxi- 
cated person." 

Tubi, v. n. „ repent;" Mand. tubi. Fr. the Ar. CjLj, conversus 

fuil a peccatis; poenitentiam ob delictum ostendil. E.g. sa 



— 282 — 

ba tra tubi tnlka ra-bomp ra ma-trei-ma-su ma-las, „we have 
to repent on account of our sins." 

Tubi, kg-, n. verb. „repentance;" e.g. ka-tubi-ka-nari, „their re- 
pentance." 

Tuk, a-, pi. e-, n „rice straw, stalk of rice after the ears are 
plucked off," which is generally left standing in the ground, 
sometimes also cut off, and taken home; and from the roots 
of which the rice called, e-pasar (second crop) comes out, 
which is of an inferior quality. 

Tuli, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „a mast," (as of a canoe or ship); also „the 
turret" or „spire on the top of the conical roof of a country 
house," which is properly the post supporting the conical 
roof in the middle, reaching down to the ground, and pro- 
jecting at the ou'side of the roof on the top, forming, as 
it were, a little spire. E. g. ka-tuli ka-bana, „the main mast," 
lit. „the great mast;" — tramar ka-tuli ro-bil, „put up the 
mast in the canoe." 

Tunt, v. a. „measure, weigh;" e.g. tunt ak'ola, „mcasure the 
cloth." 

Tup, v. n. „endeavour, try, Iry hard, exert oneself," (as to get 
something); e. g. I tup tra soto pa-la; kere I tam'ro, „l 
endeavoured to get rice; but I was disappointed." 

Tupas, v. n. prob. a freq. form from an ol>s. tup, „praclise divination, 
divine, make country fashion," (as they call it), „tell fortune," 
(by means of sand, or small stones of different colours) ; e. g. 
o tra tupas traka Pa Sori, „he is making country fashion for 
Mr. Sori." 

Tiisi, v. a. „pull out," (as roots, or Ihe feathers of a fowl); 
„unroot," (as plants); „pluck," (as a fowl); „extract," (as a 
tooth); e.g. „tusi e-y6ka, „pull out the cassadas;" — o- 
bera o tusi am-bamp, „the woman plucked the fowl." Cf. 

the Ar. yiJu, and the Hebr. ^ni extraxit. 

u. 

U-, pref. indef. „a, an;" used by some as an indef. form of o-; 
but it is not generally used, o- being used definitely and in- 



— 283 — 

definitely; it seems to have crept in from the Bolom. E. g. 
u-sem, „meat;" but o-sem, „the meat" 
'U, abbr. form of: mu, „lhee," used with kori, „salute," as: kori 
'u, Pa! „I salute thee, Sir!" 

W. 

W, pref. indef. and insep. „a, an;" as: w'ir, „a goat," for: wo-ir. 

\Va, pr. poss. „of;" e. g. o-trank wa am'antr, „the coldness of 
the water." 

Waliet, pi. a-fet, n. „a little child;" e. g. a-fet a-runi, „boys;" — 
w'ahet runi, „a boy;" — an-fet na tra wol, „the children 
are playing together." Sometimes they use for the sing, the 
form o-fet; w'ahet is probably a contraction of: w'an fet, „a 
young child." 

Wal, v. a. „buy, purchase;" e. g. „I wai kota, „I bought cloth." 

Waia, v. rel. „ purchase- for-, purchase" or ,,buy-with-;" e.g. 
waia-mi k'ota, „buy me cloth;" — I waia-rii k'ota, „I bought 
it with cloth," (as a mat). 

Wan, pi. a-wut, n. „a child," (larger than w'ahet). It is also 
used, without any adjunct, in the sense of „son; boy; young 
man, youth; friend"; — the Gr. itaig and e&cciQog. E. g. ow'an- 
ka-mi o-runi , „my son;" — w'an, yentia-mi an-tis, „boy, 
hand me the knife." It is sometimes even applied to an 
old person in the sense of „friend;" and the pi. is also 
used of the „young ones" of beasts. 

Wan, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „a chair, a seat;" also „throne ;" e. g. o 
bempa ka-wan, „he made a chair." 

Wan diini, pi. a-wut a-runi, ,,a male child, boy;" also „a man." 

W'an bera, pi. a-wut a-bera, „a female child, a girl." 

Wandi, ka-, tra-, n. „ instruction , speech, preaching; lesson;" 
e. g. o fof ka-wandi ka-las tenon, „he delivered a bad speech 
to day;" — o gbalr an-fam ka-wandi, „he preached to the 
people," lit. „he imparted instruction to the people." 

Waftki, v. revert, a. ,.!ake away the protecting charm from-, de- 
prive- of the protecting charm," (as a farm or fruit-tree); 



— 284 — 

fig. „deprive of protection, outlaw, proscribe ;•' e.g. q wanki 
ah'antr, „he took away the protecting charm from the tree;" 
— o-bal o wanki-mi, „the king outlawed me." 

Warah, v. n. „be bright, be clear," (as the sky or atmosphere); 
e. g ak'uru ka warah, „the sky is clear." 

Wek, v. a. „draw," (as milk from a cow); „wring out, squeeze 
out," (as wet cloth, or a sore); e. g. wek ak'ota," wring 
out the cloth;" — ma ba tra wek aka-sam, „thou must 
squeeze out the sore." 

W'er, pi. Is'er, n. „arat;" e. g. ow er owe, „this rat." 

Win, adv. „once, one time; one, one and the same, alike, the same;" 
e. g. I nan'-ko gbo win, „I saw him but once;" — an-toh- 
h'on ye ma-seio-m'oh ma yi gbo win, „his law and his 
will are just the same." With a negative „never," as: I tr'a 
he mu win, „I never knew thee." 

Win win, „now and then;" Ger. „hie und da," lit. „once once;" 
e. g. o yo-lsi gbo win win, „he did it only now and then." 

W'ir, pi. ts'ir, n. „a goat;" e. g. ts'ir tra-bana, „large goats." 

Wot! int. „alas!" It is expressive of pain, grief, lamentation or 
pity. E. g. wol ininan! „alas for me!" See Colloq. Phras. 
p. 108. 

Wol! Wot! int. emph. „alas! alas!" See Colloq. Phras. p. 108. 

Wol, v. n. „play, play together;" e. g. ah-fet na tra wol, „the 
children are playing together." As to its sense it is rather 
recipr., but not as to its form. 

Woma, adj. „in the husk" (applied to grain); e. g. pa-la pa- 
woma, „rough rice," or „rice in the husk." 

Won, v. a. „shake out, shake" (as cloth, or the law-broom); 
„shake of!" (as something from one's cloth); „flap, clap" 
(as the wings); „ply" (as a whip); e.g. won ak'ota, „shake 
the cloth;" — o won am-bok , „he shook off the snake." 

Won, v. n. „be long, stay long; last long, last;" e. g. ha won 
di, ,.they stayed long there;" — ah-set ahe ha tra won, 
„ihis house will last long;" — o won he, „he will not be 
long." It is the short form of woni. 



— 285 — 

Won', euph. form of won, „go in," used before the prep, do-, 
as: o won' do-set, „he went into the house; — won' di, 
„go in there." See next word. 
Won, v. n. „go in, come in, enter;" of the sun „set, go down," 
= the Hebr. Ki3. E. g. g won ka ari-set, „he went into 
the house," = o won' do-set; — o won gbo, „he went just 
in;" — ar'etr ra won, „the sun set." 
Won, v. a. „get into, enter into, get into" (as into some slate, 
or something into one's body); „enter" (as a house); „join" 
(as a company); „embrace" (as a religion); „put on, wear" 
(as clothes); also „get" (as a sore pus); e. g. o won ra-trar, 
,.he became a slave" or „he got into slavery;" — o won' 
da-nes, for: o won ra-nes, „he got afraid." lit. „he entered 
into fear;" — na won an-set, „they entered the house;" 
— o won a-wohane, „he joined a company;" — o won' 
da-mori, „he embraced Islamism;" — ka-sam ka won ma-ti, 
„the sore suppurates" or „gets pus;" — o won ar'iima-r'on 
loko 6 loko, „he puts on (wears) his shirt always;" — e-tof 
e woii-ini ro-for, „some earth got into my eyes," lit. „earth 
got into me at the eyes." With the last ex. the obj. pronoun 
of the veib serves to express the poss. pronoun. 
Note. It may be observed here, that this verb is very fre- 
quently used in connection with an abstract noun, to form 
comp. inch, verbs; when won may often be given by „ be- 
come, get, get into." Also wur in the sense of „ bring forth, 
produce, get", is often used in a similar way, as will be 
seen from the Temne Grammar and Dictionary. Of. also 
wona below. 
Won, = owon, pr.dem. rem. „thal, that one;" this form is used 
if the pr. without the noun is the subject of a proposition, 
as: w'uni las won, „that is a bad person," lit. „a bad per- 
son that." 
Won ka a-fam, „ become fashion among people," lit. „ enter into 

people." 
Won' do-tr'ei, „get into trouble;" e. g. o-lanba o won' do-tr'el ; 
„the young man got into trouble." 



— 286 — 

Won w'llni yarifa, for: won w'uni a-y£nfa, „form a conspiracy 
against one, conspire against one;" e. g. 'a won-ko yanfa, 
„they conspired against him." 

Woria, v. caus. „make to go in, cause to enter, bring in, lead 
in;" e.g. o wona-mi ro-set, „he brought me into the house;" 
— o wona-ko ra-trar, „he enslaved him," lit. „he led him 
into slavery;" — o woria-ko ma-lap, „ho made him ashamed" 
or „he brought shame (disgrace) upon him." 
Note. By this caus. form the comp. inch, form with won may 
be made transitive or causative. 

Wonane, a-, n. „a company, a society," (especially one whose mem- 
bers have engaged to assist each other in farm-work); e. g. 

won an-woriane, » ne joined the farming company." 
Wonane, v. spont. (rad. won), „gel fever, get warm" or „hot, have 

fever;"' e. g. ow'ahet o wonane, „the child got fever." 
Won's, v. caus. (rad. won) „make to go in" or „to enter, put-on-, 
clothe-with-;" e. g. won's-kg ar'iuna, „pnt him on the shirt," = 
,,clothe him with the shirt;" — 1 wori's-ko e-16pra, „I put 
him on the clothes;" — o wori's-mi y'etr, „he clothed me," 
lit. „he made me to enter things," (woris showing here that 
wearing apparel is intended by y'etr; for this caus. form of 
won is to he kept distinct from the other caus. form wona 
above; because won's is always used of putting on clothes, 
or wearing apparel, or war implements.) 
Wont, v. n. „graze, feed;" e. g. tra-na ria tra wont ro-lal, „the 

cows are grazing on the grass-field." 
Wont, v. a. „graze, feed on; look for-," (as for medicine); e.g. 

1 ko wont e-trol ro-kant, „I go to look for medicine in the 
bush;" — tra-na na poh wont od'er be, „the cows have 
grazed the whole place." 

Wont, ka-, n. verb. „act of grazing, act of feeding, a grazing;" 
e. g. ka-wont ka tra-na, „the grazing of the cows." 

Wontr, o-, pi. a-, n. „a brother" or „sister"; also „brother" (with- 
out any adjunct), „one born of the same parents;" Germ. 
„Geschwister". 



— 287 — 

Wontr o-bera, o-, pi. a-, n. „a sister"; e. g. o-wontr-ka-mi o-bera, 
„my sister." 

Wontr o-rfini, o-, pi. a-, n. „a brother"; e. g. o-wontr-ka-mi o- 
runi, „my brother." 

Wop, v. a. „take hold of-, hold, seize, apprehend; hit" (as the 
ball of a gun); „keep, obe\" (as a law); e. g. a wop-ko, 
„they seized him;" — an-rom ha wop-ko, „leprosy has seized 
him;" — o wop an-toh ha K'uru, „he keeps the law of 
God." Also „catch" (as fish), as: ma wop e-lop-i ? „didst 
thou catch fish?" 

W r op, ka-, n. verb. „act of taking hold of-." or „of seizing, cap- 
ture; a holding, a keeping;" e. g. ka-wop-k'on an-toh ^a 
K'liru, „his keeping the law of God." 

Wop a-siim, „hold a fast, fast;" e. g. 'a wop a-silm, „they hold 
a fast." 

Wopa, v. rel. „take hold of-by-, hold-with-, hold-for-, seize- 
for-;" e. g. wopa-mi-ko, „seize him for me:" — o wopa-ko 
ka-tra, „he held him with the hand." 

Wopa wuni t'amasere, „bear evidence against one," lit. „hold 
one with an evidence;" e. g. o wopa-ko t'amasere, „he bore 
evidence against him." 

Wopne, v. refl. a. „hold oneself to-, take hold of-, hold oneself 
on-, trust in-, cleave to-; take refuge with-;" e. g. 1 bun 
fumpo; kere 1 wopne ak'antr, „1 almost fell; but 1 held 
myself on the stick;" — o wopne-mi tra nemtene-mu, kaina 
ma tse ko sap, „he took refuge with me to beg thee, that 
thou mightest not flog him." 

W T 'gr, pi. tr'or, n. „a species of deer generallv called fillen- 
tamba" (being a beautiful animal with long slender legs, and 
a white and brown spotted skin); e. g. 1 nahk w'or, „1 saw 
a fillentamba." 

Worap, v. n. „dream"; e. g. 1 worap na tratrak, „I dreamed 
last night." 

Wos, v. n. „get dry; be dry; get hard, be hard" (as bread); 
„get parched, be parched" (as soil); e. g. ad'iiba ra wos, 
„the ink gets dry." 



— 288 — 

Note. This is the short form of wosi, and expresses the inch, 
form also, as is the case with all the short forms of this 
class of verbs ; while the long form is used more positively, 
and never in negative propositions. 

Wos, o-, pi. a-, n. „a husband"; e.g. o-wos-k'on, „her husband." 

Wosa, v. a. „answer to-, answer for-, answer; answer to- in the 
affirmative," Ger. „bejahen". Also acknowledge, confess; be 
willing for-;" e. g. o wosa he ko, „he did not answer him;" — 
tse wosa-ko, „do not answer him;" — 'a wosa-tsi, „they 
confessed it;" or also „thev were willing for it;" — o wosa 
atr'ei-tr'on tra-las, „he acknowledged his sin." Also „be 
accountable for-." 

Wosa, v. n. „answer, answer in the affirmative; confess; be 
willing, consent;" with traka „account for-;" e. g. o wosa he, 
„he did not answer;" — muno ba tra wosa traka atr'ef tra- 
tsi, „thou hast to account for that, matter." 

Wosa, ka-, n. verb. „act of answering" or „of answering for-, 
etc.;" e. g. muno ba ka-wosa atr'ei ira-tsi, „thou hast to 
account for that matter," lit. „thou hast the accounting for 
that matter." 

Wosi, v. impers. „be dry;" e. g. pa-wosi, „it is dry." This form 
was only met with in a Proverb. See Proverb 2, p. 98. 

Wosi, v. n. „be dry, be hard;" e. g. ka-bo ake ka wosi, „ this 
bread is dry." See: wos above, of which this is the long form. 

Wdso, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „a yellowish" or „ whitish clay, with which 
the Bondo girls rub their body, while under the charge of 
the Bondo head-woman, and of which they make chalk." 

Woto, ka-, or ra-, pi. tra-, n. „a baboon, the African orang-outang, 
chimpansee," (simia satyrus, or simia troglodytes). The,, grey 
baboon" is called: ka-dumbu, or: ka-rumbu (cynocephalus 
hamadryas). 

Wotr, v. a. „break to pieces, break, smash" or „dash to pieces;" 
e. g. tse wotr am-bol, „do not break the earthen pot to 
pieces." 

Wu, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „knee"; see: so, v. a. „bow, bend." 

Wul, a-,pl. e-. n. „a thousand"; e.g. e-wul e-sas, „three thousand." 



— 289 — 

Wul, a-, pi. e-, n. „a loop, noose, Irap" (to catch venison and 
birds in); e. g. o sap a-bamp ka an-wul, „he caught a bird 
in the trap." 

W'iini, pi. a-fam, n „a person; man, one, someone;" e.g. w'uni 
k'in, „one person;" — w'uni lorn o trori-mi-tsi, „some per- 
son informed me of it." 

Wuni, ra-, n. „manhood, human nature;" e. g. ra-wuni-r'oh, 
„his human nature." 

W'uni bana, pi. a-fam a-bana, n. „a giani," lit. ,,a big person." 

W'uni bom, pi. a-fam a-bom, or: bom-ha, n. „a woman," lit. 
„a female person." Cf. bom, o-, under B. 

W'uni lorn, „some person, some one, a certain person." Cf. 
w'uni above. 

W'uni 6 w'uni, „every one, any one;" with a negative „not any 
person, no man, none, no one;" e. g. w'uni 6 w'uni o gbaii 
he yo atr'ei atse, „no man can do this thing;" — w'uni 6 
w'uni owo tse ko lane, „every one who does not believe 
in him." 

Wur, v. n. „go out, come out, go forth, come forth;" also „jut 
out" (as a stone from a wall); „project" (as a point of land 
into the sea); ,.rise" (as the sun, = the Hebr. N^T); etc. 
With the prep, ro- this verb may have the sense „go out 
to-" or „from-" or „in-" or „mto-," or „come out to-" 
or „from-" or „in-" or „into-"; thus: o wur ro-petr, may 
signify „comc" or „go out from the town," or also „come 
out (from some place) into the town." E. g. o wur ro-set, 
„he came out from the house," = o wur ka ah-set; — ha 
wur he tenon, „they did not come out to day;" — ar'elr ra 
wur, „the sun rises." 

Wur, v. a. „put forth, send forth, produce, emit, get;" also 
„come out from-;" e. g. ma-lehi ma wur i-bonlr i-flno, „the 
flowers smell sweetly," lit. „the flowers put forth a good 
smell;" — ah-sal-h'oh ha wur ma-tsir, „his finger bleeds," 
lit. „his finger emits blood;" — ah-fatr ha wur ma-gbak, 
„the iron gets rusty;" — ah'antr ha wur e-bopar, „the tree 
gets leaves;" — ah'antr ha wur ma-lehi, „(he tree gets blos- 

Tcmne - "Wortevbuch. 1 9 



— 290 — 

soms;" — an-ngs o wur tr'atrak tra-lai, „the spider got 
many legs" (i. e. when it came into existence, cf. Fable II. 
p. 56) ; — ma-t.sir ma wur-ko, „he bleeds," lit. „blood comes 
out from him." See also the Note after won, v. a. 

Wur i-bontr, „emit a smell, smell." See ex. under the preceding 
word. 

Wura, v. caus. „make to come out, pull out, draw out, lake out; 
put forth, stretch forth" or „out; find out, invent;" e. g. 
wiira a-tis, „he took out a knife;" — kdno wura an-gbato 
ka am-bom-na-tsi, „he drew out the cutlass from its sheath;" 
— o wura gbo ara-bomp-r'ori, „it only stretched forth its 
head." 

Wut, a-, pi. of w'an, which see. 

Y. 

Y', pref. indef. andinsep. „a, an," as y'etr, „things", for: ye-etr. 

Ya, o-. pi. a-, n. „ mistress, lady, madam;" also „mother" (when 
addressing her, otherwise o-kara is generally used); e.g. kali 
0-ya-ka-mi, „see my mistress;" — kori 'u, Ya! „I salute thee, 
Madam!" This form corresponds with pa, „masler, etc." 

Ya, prep. poss. „of"; e.g. ey'etr ya Sori, „Sori's things," lit. 
„the things of Sori." 

Ya, adv. = ye and yo, „thus, so, in this way, in the same 
manner, the same kind." This form is used before words 
with the vowel a, as: ya na yo-e, „thus they did;" — ya 
fia pa, „thus they said;" — ya a-fam na ma la yo, „so 
people are always doing." 

Ya-tsi, pr. poss. neut. ,.its; their," lit. „of it;" e. g. e-bopar- 
ya-tsi, ,,its leaves" (as of a tree). 

Ya-tsi, pr. dem. loc. „that; those;" e. g. e\'etr ya-tsi, „those 
things" (spoken of). 

Yahannama, n. „hell, place of torment;" Mand. yahaniba; Ful. 

v G * — -» 

tsahannima. From the Ar. *^L£s», gehenna, inferni ignis, 
infernus. E. g. ro-yahaiinama, „in hell." 
YaT, adj. „ worthless, of no value, trifling, vain, vile, mean;" e.g. 
w'dni yal, „a mean person;" — r'a ra-yaT, „a worthless thing." 



— 291 — 

Yal, ra-, n. „worlhlessness, vanity, vileness, meannes;" e. g. ra- 
yaT-r'on, „his meanness." 

Yak, v. n. „wash clothes;" e. g. 'a ko yak ro-bat, „they go to 
wash clothes at the brook;" — o-bera owe o tra>a yak, „1his 
woman can wash well," lit. „ knows to wash." 

Yak, v. a. „wash" (as clothes); „cleanse" (as a sore); e. g. yak 
aka-sam-ka-mu, „cleanse thy sore; k - — 1 ko yak ey'ylr-'e-mi 
e-16pra, „1 go to wash my clothes." 

Yaka, ka-, pi. pa-, n. „rice of a superior qualify," also called: 
pa-la pa-krifi, „krifi rice." Cf. the word krifi, adj. 

Yal, a-, pi. e-. or tra . n. „a boal"; e. g. a-yal a-flno, „a fine 
boat." 

Yah, ra-, pi. tra-, n. ,.middle pa;l of the day, noon, midday;" 
also „the clear part of the day from sun-rise to sun-set;" 
e. g. o der na ra-yah, „he came to day at noon." The pi. 
is hardly ever used. 

Yan, adv. = ya, „thus, in this way;" e. g. 1 yema he ki van, 
„I do not want it in Ibis way," (as a wooden bowl). Yan 
is the abs. form of ya. (Cf. -h under N.) 

Yanfa, a-, pi. e-, n. „a trick; deceitfulness, deceitful character, 
deceit, treachery;" e. g. ow'uni owe o ba yanfa, „this per- 
son is deceitful," lit. ,.this p. has deceitfulness;" — o yo-mi 
yanfa, „he played me a trick," lit. „he did me a trick" or 
„deceitfulness" . 

Yanfa, adj. „ deceitful, treacherous; e.g. w'tmi yanfa, „a deceit- 
ful person." 

Y'ahkra, n. „long trowsers, as worn by theMandingos and Susus;" 
e. g. y'ahkra y'in, „one pair of trowsers;" — eyai'ikra-y'oh, 
„his trowsers." 

,.,, ' } adj. num. „four"; e. g. e-tis y'Snle, ,.four knives." 
Y aide, > 

Yantfij ma-, n. „a kind of millel," also called: k'ene, pi. p'^ne. 

Yao, adv. „yes; well;" e.g. ma yefa ro-Bake Ldko-i? Yao. 

„doesl thou come from Port-Loko?" „Yes." 

Yari, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. ,.a cat"; e. g. a-yari a-fet, „a kitten." 

Yaro, a-, pi. e-; or a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „a diamond snake," also 

19* 



— 292 - 

called „ devil" or „ magic snake" (much dreaded by the Na- 
tives). See Pref. § 13. b. 

Yawe! int. „oh dear! alas! ah! oh!" indicating disappointment 
or regret. E. g. yawe, pa-ka-mi! „alas, my father!" This 
expression is used by women when crying after the death of 
their husband. 

Ye, pref. indef. used with the num. adj. ran, „two", and with 
other adjectives in the def. state; e. g. e-gbata ye-rari, „two 
mats." 

Ye, adv. = ya, yo, „thus, so, in this way, in the same manner, 
the same kind;" e. g. ye taho-i? „is it not so?" — ye pa 
yi, „thus it is;" — ye I me la yo, „thus 1 am always doing." 
It is generally used before words with the vowels e, i and a. 

Ye, pr. dem. prox. (for: eye), „this; these;" used with the comp. 
dem. pronoun yia-ye, „it (is) this; they (are) these;" and in 
the phrase: e-suma ye, „at this time." Cf. sdma, e-. — It 
is also often used after: fo, or: ho, „say"; about which see: 
fg ye. 

Yefa, v. n. „come away, go away" (from); „depart; descend, 
originate;" e. g. o yefa ro-petr, „he came away from the 
town;" — o yefa rondri, „he went away from him," or „he 
turned away from him." 

Yehudi, o-, pi. a-, n. „aJew"; e.g. a-yehudi a-laT, „many Jews." 

Yeli, o-, pi. a-, n. „a public singer" (who extols or degrades one 
by singing); also „minstrel, courtjester, merry Andrew" (as 
kept by chiefs for their amusement); „a public beggar." 

Yem, ra-, pi. tra-, n. „a lie, a falsehood;" e. g. o ba ra-yem, 
„he is a liar," lit. „he has falsehood." 

Yema, v. n. „tell a lie" or „ falsehood, lie;" e. g. o yema gbo, 
„he told but a lie." 

Yema, v. n. „want, wish." As an aux. it has often the sense 
of „be about, be upon the point." E. g. I yema mun, „I 
want to drink;" — ka-sam ka yema yehk, „the sore wants 
to heal" or „is about to get heal;" — pa yema sok, „it is 
about to dawn" or „it wants to dawn;" — ma-lemre ma 
yema lol-ah, „the limes are about to get ripe." When used 



} adv. „now"; e.g. pa yenen tdkon! „speak then now!" 



— 293 — 

as an aux. , it is construed with the. short form of the In- 
finitive. 
Yema, v. impers. „want, be about." See the preceding form. 
Yema, v. a. „want, need, be in need of;" e. g. I yema-rii hali, 

„I want it much." 
Yem'sa, v. freq. and rel. (rad. vema), „tell a lie about-" or 
„ against-" or „of-"; e. g. o yem'sa-mi gbo, „he only told 
a lie about me." 
Yen en, 
Yen en, 

Yenk, v. n. „get well, get heal" (as a sore); with negative pro- 
positions also „be well, be heal;" e. g. ka-sara ka poh yehk, 
„the sore has got well." It is the short form of yehki, „be 
well, be heal." See the Note after wos, v. n. above. 
Yehk ma-der, .,get well in body, get restored to health." 
Yenk ma-der, ka-, n. „ state of being well, health;" e. g. ka- 

yehk-k'oh ma-der, or: ka-yehk ma-der-k'oh, „his health." 
Yehkas, v. caus. „heal, cure, make well," (often used with ma- 
der, „body"); e. g. o som-mi e-trol tra yehkas-mi, „he gave 
me medicine to cure me." See next word. 
Yehkas wuni ma-der, „cure a person's body, make one well, 
restore one's health;" as: o yehkas-mi ma-der, „he restored 
me to health," lit. „he cured me (as to the) body." The 
obj. pr. serves here, as it were, for a poss. pronoun. 
Yentr, v. a. „deliver, handover, give, give up, deliver up;" e.g. 
o yentr an-reka, „he delivered the letter;" — 'a yentr-ko, 
„they delivered him up." Also „deliver up-with-" or „by-", 
as: 'a yentr-ko a-sot, „they betrayed him," lit. „they deliv- 
ered him up by a stratagem." 
Yentra , v. rel. „deliver-to-, hand-to-, hand-for-;" e.g. w'an, 

yentra-mi a-tis, „boy, hand me a knife." 
Yer, v. a. „share, give; divide, share out to-, distribute, appor- 
tion;" also „share-with-;" e. g. yer-mi mun, „give me to 
drink;" — o yer o-sem, „he shared the meat;" — o yer- 
mi ka-bo, „he gave me of the bread," or „he shared the 
bread with me." 



— 294 — 

Y6rane, v. a. recipr. „ share among each other;" e. g. na yerane 
ak'ota, „they shared the cloth among each other." 

Yerane, v. rel. and refl. „share in-, have a part" or „share in-, 
partake of-oneself;" e. g. o yerane o-sem, „he ha6 a share 
in the meat." 

Yese, v. n. „get loose" (as rope); ,.get" or „be in disorder, 
get" or „be scattered" (as a bundle of sticks); „go to ruins, 
decay, dilapidate, fall to pieces," (as a house); e. g. an-set 
na yese, „the house goes to ruins;" — ka-fant'r ka ye>e, 
„the bed is not made." * 

Y'etr, pi. of r'a, or r'aka, which see. 

Y'etr e-di, pi. of r'a ra-di, which see. 

Y'etr e-16pra, n. „wearing apparel, clothes;" e. g. o ba y'etr 
e-16pra e-fino, „he has fine clothes." 

Yi, adv. „thus, so;" it may be sometimes given by „this"; e.g. 
kariko K'uru pa tse mu yi yi! „God grant that it may not 
be thus with thee!" 

Yi, v. impers. „be"; e. g. ye pa yi, „thus it is." 

Yi, v. n. „be, exist;" e. g. Pa Sori o yi he ri, „Mr. Sori is not 
there;" — o kas-ka-mi o yi ro-petr, „my father is in the 
town." 

Yi, v. a. „be to-, be-for-, be with-; consist of-; happen to-, 
befall;" e. g. tr'ei tra yi-mi ro-mera, „I have something at 
heart," lit. „something is with me in the mind;" — tra yi- 
mi traka ko ro-kamp, „I intend to go to Freetown;" — o 
kane na atra ma yi-na, „he told them what would befall 
them." 

Yi, ma-, n. „state, condition;" e. g. ma-yi-m'ori ro-krifi , „his 
condition in Hades." 

Yi, pr. obj. „it; them;" e. g. ey'etr-'e-mi kere-yi ro-set, „as to 
my things carry them into the house." 

Yia, pr. emph. „it, this; they, them, these;" e. g. e-gbctta-'e-mi 
yia-ye, „these are my mats," lit. „my mats they these;" 
— ey'etr eye yia I yema, „these things them 1 want." 

Yian, pr. abs. „it, this; they, them, these;" e. g. ey'etr-'e-mi 
viari, „these are my things," lit. „my things they" or 



— 295 — 

„these". These abs. forms imply the copula „be". (Cf. -h 
under N.) 

Yif, v. a. „ask; ask-fVr-, beg-for-;" e. g. o yif-mi traka an-reka 
loko 6 lriko, „he always asks me for the letter;" — o yif- 
ha r'aka, „he begged them for something;" — ha yif-ko ho 
ye: Tra sa ko-i? „they asked him: Shall we go?" 

Yiki, a-, n. „glory, majesty; d ; gnity, stale, honour;" e. g. ah- 
M'ki-h'oh, „his glory;" — o-bal owe o ba a-yiki a-bana, „this 
king has a great state." 

Yikis, v. caus. „glorify, dignify, honour;" e. g. ah-fam fia yikis- 
kg, „the people glorified him." 

Yim'ra, v. dim. and inch, (rad vim), „wither, fade" (as leaves), 
lit. „get reddish;" e. g. e-bopar ya ah'antr e tra yim'ra, „the 
leaves of the tree are withering." 

Y'in, adj. num. „one"; e.g. y'ahkra y'in, „one pair of trowsers." 

Y'intr, pi. of h'autr, which see. 

Yira, v. n. „sit down, sit; live, dwell; also „settle" (asdreggs); 
e. g. o yira and, „he sits here," or „he lives here;" — ko 
yira ri, „go sit down there." It is probably a rel. and caus. 
form of: yi. 

Yisa, v. a. „hoisl" (as a sail); „cock" (as a gun); e.g. w'an, 
yisa ri am-bela, „boy, hoist the sail there." 

YO, v. n. „act, do;" e. g. yo Q y<3, „thus he did." 

Yo, v. a. „do; make," (as a table) ; „raise," (as an army); „do- 
with-, do-to-, treat;" e. g. o yo ma-pant, „he does work;" 
— I yo-ko mo a-boT, „I treated him as a servant;" — tse 
so yo.-t&i, w'an! „do not do it again, boy!" As an aux. it 
indicates causation of the energy, denoted by the principal 
verb, and is construed with the def. verb, as: kdng yo-ko 
o keia, „he caused him to steal." lit. „he made him he 
steal;" — muno yo-ko o fi, „thou wast the occasion of his 
death." 

Yo, ka-, n. verb. „act of doing" or „m;iking, a treating, a doing;" 
also „habit, fashion;" e. g. ka-yo-k'oh alr'ei atse, „his doing 
this thing;" — ka-yo-k'oh kia-ke, „this is his fashion." 



— 296 — 

Yo, o-, pl.a-, n. „a doer"; e.g. ah-yo ha ar'i'm ra K'uru, „the 

doers of the word of God." 
Yo, adv. „thus, so, in this way, in the same way" or „manner, 

the same kind;" e. g. yo o pa, „thus he said;" — yo o yo, 

„thus he did." This form is used before words with the 

vowels o and n. 
Yo o-las, „act wrong, do wrong;" e. g. o yo o-las, „he acted 

wrong." 
Yo w'iini ka-tsin, „treat one in a mean" or „vile manner;" e.g. 

o lanba o yo-mi ka-tsin, „the man treated me in a vile 

manner." 
Yo w'iini o-baki, „deal hardly with one, treat one severely;" 

e. g. 'a yo-ko o-baki, „they treated him severely." 
Yo w'rini o-bah, „hurt one, harm one, injure one," lit. „treat 

one painfully;" e. g. an-fara na yo-ha o-bah, „lhe people 

hurt them." 
Yo w'iini o-las, „do wrong to one, treat one badly;" e. g. o- 

w'uni owe o yo ha o-las, „lhis person treated them badly." 
Yo w'iini o-tot, „do good lo one, treat one kindly" or „well"; 

e. g. ah-fam ahe ha yo-mi o-tot, „these people treated me 

well." 
Yo w'uni tr'el tra-fino, „treat one well," lit. „do one a good 

thing;" e. g. o-tem o yO-mi tr'el tra-fino, „the old man 

treated me well." 
Y'of, pi. of h'of, which see. 
Yofat, adj. „soft" (as a pillow); e. g. ka-fant'r ka-yofat, „a soft 

bed." 
Yoka, v. a. „take, take up, lake away; iakc on oneself, assume" 

(as an office); e. g. o yoka ak'antr, „he took up the stick;" 

— o yoka an-troko, „he took away the fowl;" — o yoka 

ra-yola, „he made himself a gentleman," lit. „he took (as- 
sumed) the rank of a gentleman;" — o yoka ma-der ma 

w'uni, or simply: o yoka ma-der, „he look on himself a 

human body," = „he became man." 
Yoka, a-, pi. e-, n. „a cassada root;" e.g. e-yoka e-fino, „good 

cassadas." 



— 297 — 

Yoka k'or, ,,conceive, become pregnant," lit. „take a belly," 
e. g. o-bera o yoka k'or, „the woman conceived." 

Yokane, v. refl. n. Jake oneself up," hence „rise, get up; rise 
up as—;" e.g. w'an, yokane, pa sok! „boy, gel up, it 
dawns!" — an-fam be ha yokane, „all the people got up;" 
— o yokane o-kelfa, „he rose up as a war-officer;" — o 
yokane ka ra-fi, „he rose from death." Also fig. „recover, 
get well again" (rise up, as it were, from a sickness), as: 
o-tem o poh yokane so, „the old man got well again." 

Yokane, v. rel. and refl. „take to oneself, lake on" or „upon 
oneself, assume;" e. g. o yokane ra-kelfa, „he took on him- 
self the office of a captain of the army," = ,.he made him- 
self a captain of the army;" — o yokane ma-der ma w'dni, 
„he took on himself a human body," = „he became man" 
or „he became incarnate," for which they may also say 
simply: o yokane ma-der. 

Yola, o-, pi. a-, n. „a gentleman, a rich man;" e.g. o yi o-yola 
o-bana, „he is a great gentleman." 

Yola, ra-, n. „state" or „rank of a gentleman, gentlemanship;" 
e. g. o ba ra-yola, „he is a gentleman." 

Y'on, pr. poss. „his, her/' lit. „of him, of her;" e. g. ey'etr- 
y'oh, „his things." 

Yon, adv. = yah which see. This form is not much used; they 
rather use yah for it. 

Yon, ka-, pi. tra-, n. „a bamboo stick hollowed out to about the 
middle of its length;" it is used to catch fish with. On 
one of its ends it is widely opened, and then gets more and 
more narrow; at the other end it is lied together, if the 
fish goes in at the open end, and reaches the middle of it; 
it cannot come out again. The stick is left in the water for 
this purpose sometimes a whole day. 

Yona, v. rel. (rad.yo), „do-for-, make-for-; do-with-, make-with-; 
do work with-;" e.g. o-lahba o yona-mi ma-pant, „the young 
man does work for me;" — o yona-mi a-mesa, „he made a 
table for me;" — o yona ka-bap, „he does work with the 
axe;" — yona ka-bap ake ma-pant, „do work with this axe." 



— 298 — 

Yona, adj. „belonging 1o doing work with, doing with, using 
for;" e. g. y'etr e-ydna ma-pant ro-tof, „tools to do work 
with in the ground," = agricultural implements." 

Ydne, v. refl. (rad.yo), „happen, come to pass, take place;" also 
„be fulfilled" (as a prophecy); lit. „do itself;" e.g. atr'ei atse 
tra ydne tenon, „this thing happened to day;" — atra K'uru 
o pa tapan-e, tra ydne tenon ah-lo ahe, „what God spoke long 
ago, has come to pass at this day," or „whal God foretold, 
has been fulfilled at this time." 

Yos, a-, or i-, pi. ma-, n. „a deed, work, achievement, action; 
custom, habit, manners;" e. g. ma-yos-mon, „his deeds;" — 
ma-yos ma am-bdna ahe, „the customs of this nation;" — 
ma-yos-m'on ma-kabane, „his wonderful deeds;" — an-ygs 
ahe ah^ o yo ha tesa he, „ this deed which he did does 
not please." 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 


Los Angeles 
This book is DUE on the last date stamped below. 




gfcC'O LO-URL 


Ill SEP 2 41973 


MAR 18^85 ' 


¦ - i d 1978. 




BE 


| NOV 0««W 

MAY 1 ^ 1990 




• 


*anKp 




ft ,380 
fttt ° 




D \SC«^ Gt ' UR 




Form L9— Series 4 14 


•if DECf* ^' 




PL 

8735 
S3^1c 



1158 00190 4829 



UC SOUTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILIT 



AA 000 668 877 4 